1965 Argentine Air Force C-54 disappearance
1965 Argentine Air Force C-54 disappearance (also known as TC-48 Flight or The Cadets Flight) refers to the disappearance of an Argentine Air Force Douglas C-54G carrying cadet graduates from the Military Aviation School that disappeared between Howard Air Force Base in Panama and El Salvador International Airport on 3 November 1965.
The last contact with the aircraft was 30 or 40 minutes after take-off, when the pilot reported a fire in one of the engines and notified the control tower of San José International Airport in Costa Rica that they intended to divert there.
The aircraft never arrived and all passengers and crew are missing, presumed dead.
The disappearance is considered the greatest mystery of Argentine aviation.


Flight
The C-54 took off from El Palomar on October 31, 1965 to the Military Aviation School.
The crew consisted of 9 members; 5 officers and 54 cadets, thus totaling 68 occupants.
The training flight would take them to San Francisco.
During the trip, a second Douglas DC-4 was used, the TC-43 that carried the rest of the promotion.
Both aircraft departed the following day, and flew to the Cerro Moreno base in Chile where, after a technical stopover, the flight continued to the Las Palmas base in Lima, Peru.
There they spent the night and incorporated two cadets from the Peruvian Air Force, which were distributed in both planes.
On November 2 they flew to Panama with a technical stopover in Guayaquil (Ecuador); and the next day, they had to complete the journey between the Howard Air Force Base and San Salvador International Airport (El Salvador).


Aircraft

The aircraft involved was a Douglas C-54G transport aircraft of the Argentine Air Force, with serial number TC-48 (msn 35983).
 It was first flown in 1945.
 It was assigned to the 1st Air Brigade based in El Palomar and immediately began to be used for relocation flights of military personnel, officials and relatives.


Accident
At about 05:49, the aircraft took off from Howard Air Force Base on the Pacific side of the Panama Canal Zone with a second Douglas DC-4.
 The two aircraft would fly together to San Salvador International Airport, keeping sporadic radio contact for the duration of the flight.
The last two transmissions from the aircraft were at 06:27 when the DC-4 reported to Panama tower confirming that it had reached position "Mike-5" without incident at an altitude of 6500 and was heading for San Salvador.
The "Mike-5" position is a navigational point close to Escudo de Veraguas island on the Panamanian Caribbean Mosquitoes Gulf of the Bocas del Toro Province.
The weather conditions for this first part of the route were not the best, the forecast indicated severe turbulence, heavy rain, and visibility from very limited to zero.
At 06:36 the pilot of the C-54 reported a fire in engine 3, and engine 4 had stopped working.
 The crew reported that it would attempt to land or ditch the aircraft in the water.
 The broadcast was picked up by Tegucigalpa ATC and a Lacsa cargo plane pilot.
The cargo plane pilot recommended landing at Limón International Airport or El Coco International Airport, now called Juan Santamaría International Airport, but the aircraft never arrived.
After that time, a large number of conflicting reports began to emerge, such as a third broadcast from the flight at 07:05 that said that the aircraft was flying over Bocas del Toro, heading towards Puerto Limón, where firefighters and ambulances were being mobilized while waiting for the aircraft.


Reported sightings
In 2008, Teletica journalist Gerardo Zamora interviewed several witnesses that stated the aircraft entered Costa Rican territory by Sixaola, and was also seen on Valle La Estrella, and a last witness stated that survivors were seen near Telire, all communities close to the Talamanca Range.


Passengers and crew
The aircraft was carrying nine Argentine crew members and 53 cadet passengers from Argentina, one cadet from Peru and five officers.
Of the 59 passengers, 53 were Argentine cadets, five Argentine military officers and one Peruvian cadet.


Search
Initial searches for survivors were made by the United States Navy until November 17, 1965 when attempts ceased.
Relatives rejected the official version and continued to demand the search for the plane in the Costa Rican jungle, convinced that the aircraft could well be in some inaccessible place and not on the seabed.
The suspicions were strengthened when it became known that some of the personal belongings of the missing passengers that had been supposedly recovered, had actually been transported by passengers on the other plane.
 In addition, at that point, it had been revealed that the aircraft was not in perfect mechanical condition and that it had been flying overweight.
Relatives travelled to Central America to continue the search on their own.
Groups of relatives of the cadets and officers repeatedly entered the Costa Rican jungle and made contact with the natives who lived around the Cordillera de Talamanca, looking for any clue that would allow them to find the whereabouts of their loved ones.
However, they would inevitably return empty-handed.
A total of 23 expeditions were made to the Talamanca in the Costa Rica jungle, using more than 50 flights in planes and helicopters.
 The search was halted in 1967.
According to the Civil Aviation of Costa Rica and to the relatives, the aircraft is somewhere in the jungle.
In 2015 the Argentine Air Forces carried out four searches called Esperanza, both by land and by sea, which ended without results.


Investigation
After the disappearance, an investigation carried out by the United States concluded that the aircraft crashed in the sea between Panama and Costa Rica, 30 km from the coast.
A de-classified video of a United States Navy (USN) helicopter marking the location of life vests and objects in the sea was later shown to family members.
Argentine Air Force authorities accepted the conclusions reached by the US experts.


In popular culture


Books
The book TC-48, the cadets plane, by Ricardo Becerra, a former Army lieutenant and brother of cadet Héctor, mentions thirteen witnesses who saw him fly low in the jungle.


Documentary
In December 2018 the documentary film The Last Search was released in Córdoba, Argentina in local movie theaters, in which Cecilia Viberti, pilot Esteban Viberti's daughter, describes the searches made in Talamanca, Costa Rica and shares her thoughts about whether the aircraft is located in Costa Rica.


See also
Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
List of missing aircraft
List of accidents and incidents involving military aircraft (1960–1974)
List of accidents and incidents involving the Douglas DC-4
List of aircraft of the Argentine Air Force


References

HD 32963
HD 32963 is a G-type main sequence star located 124 light years away from Earth in the constellation of Taurus.
It has a mass of 0.94 solar masses.
It is 4.99 billion years old.
It has one exoplanet orbiting it which was discovered using radial velocity.
The exoplanet that has been named HD 32963 b is a Jupiter analogue due to its similar characteristics to the planet Jupiter such as orbit and size.


Planetary system
It has one currently discovered exoplanet orbiting it named HD 32963 b.
The planet orbits the star at a distance of 3.41 AU with an eccentricity of 0.07.
It takes 2372 days to orbit the parent star.
Its has a minimum mass of 0.7 Jupiter masses; in 2023 its inclination was measured by astrometry, showing it to have a true mass about twice that of Jupiter.
The orbit and size of HD 32963 b is similar to the planet Jupiter.
This makes it a Jupiter analogue planet.


References

NarK RNA motif
The narK RNA motif is a conserved RNA structure that was discovered by bioinformatics.
narK motif RNAs are found in Beta- and Gammaproteobacteria.
narK RNAs likely function as cis-regulatory elements, in view of their positions upstream of protein-coding genes.
 Four genes are presumably regulated by narK RNA, and they encode: a nitrate transporter, proteins with sulfite- and nitrate reductase domains, proteins in the major facilitator superfamily and cyclic di-GMP-specific phosphodiesterases of the EAL family.
 It was therefore proposed that there is good evidence that narK RNAs regulate genes in cis, and that they might play a role related to nitrate.


References

2009 Seattle mayoral election
The 2009 Seattle mayoral election took place November 3, 2009.
Incumbent Seattle Mayor Greg Nickels sought election to a third term as the position of Seattle mayor has no term limits but finished third in the August 18, 2009 nonpartisan primary election.
The general election was instead between Joe Mallahan and Michael McGinn.
 McGinn beat Mallahan in the election with 51%.


Background
In a November 2008 poll of likely Seattle voters, 31% of voters approved of Nickels's performance as mayor while 57% disapproved.
A January 2009 poll found a net job approval of minus 33.
Nickels' administration was faulted for not doing enough to prevent the Seattle SuperSonics NBA franchise from relocating to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Nickels was also heavily criticized for the city's policy of not using salt for snow removal due to potential environmental concerns, which contributed to the city's congested traffic in December 2008 after one of the greatest snowfalls in the city since 1996.
The Proposed replacement of the Alaskan Way Viaduct and a tax on plastic bags at grocery stores were also major issues of the campaign.


Primary candidates (in alphabetic order)
Elizabeth Campbell, Magnolia resident and activist
James Donaldson, former Seattle SuperSonics player 
Jan Drago, Seattle City Councilwoman
Kwame Garrett
Joe Mallahan, telecommunications executive and political activist; Vice President for T-Mobile US
Michael McGinn, Sierra Club leader and activist 
Greg Nickels, Seattle Mayor since 2001
Norman Sigler, former Alaska Airlines manager


Campaign finances


Primaries


Early polling
A poll conducted on August 12 showed incumbent Greg Nickels in the lead with 24 percent voter backing.
While Nickels had a significant lead over all other candidates, the undecided voter percentage of 26 percent indicated room for any candidate to take the lead in the primary held on August 18.
In second place after Greg Nickels was Mike McGinn with 16 percent.
And in third place, Joe Mallahan with 14 percent.
The survey polled 500 people with a margin of error of + or - 4.3 percent.


Primary results
The primary election was held on August 18.
The final results were posted on September 2, and showed Mike McGinn in first place with 27.7 percent of the popular vote, narrowly leading Joe Mallahan standing at 26.9 percent.
Incumbent Greg Nickels showed with 25.4 percent.
Due to Washington's top-two primary system, this eliminated Nickels from the running.
Nickels gave his concession speech on August 21 at Seattle City Hall.
Mallahan and McGinn advanced to the general election in November.


General election
An October 20 poll commissioned by KING-TV and conducted by SurveyUSA showed Joe Mallahan ahead with 43% to Michael McGinn's 36% with a margin of error of 4.1%.
 Mallahan held a lead among college graduates, Democrats, Republicans, Independents and those describing themselves as moderates and conservatives.
McGinn was shown to hold a lead among Asian-Americans, younger voters and those that describe themselves as liberals.
McGinn changed his position on the Deep Bore Tunnel that same day, claiming "If I'm elected mayor, though I disagree with this decision, it will be my job to uphold and execute this agreement.
It is not the mayor's job to withhold the cooperation of city government in executing this agreement." It was enough to push McGinn ahead of Mallahan by election day.

Mallahan conceded on November 9 after his deficit grew to nearly 5,000 votes.


References

Irene Syrikaina
Irene Syrikaina (Greek: Εἰρήνη Συρίκαινα) was the third Empress-consort of Manuel I of Trebizond.
She may be the same Irene Syrikaina whom Michael Panaretos mentions was stoned to death in September 1332 in the purges that followed Basil Megas Komnenos's accession to the throne.


Name
The male form of her family name has been suggested being either "Syrikainos" or "Syrikos".
The name may be related to the island Syros or to the terms "Syrios", "Syrikos", "Syriakos", all Greek language for Syrian.
The geographic term Syria also applied to Coele-Syria and Transjordan.


Empress
Irene is briefly mentioned in the chronicle of Michael Panaretos: "And the son of lord Manuel by the lady Irene Syrikaina, the lord George Komnenos, succeeded to the throne and reigned for fourteen years" This indicates that she was the mother of George, Emperor of Trebizond and John II of Trebizond, presumed to have been the youngest sons of Manuel.
Michel Kuršanskis has argued that Irene married Manuel some time after 1253, the year Manuel sent envoys to King Louis IX of France, who was then at Sidon after his defeat at the Battle of Fariskur, seeking to marry a daughter of his house.
This diplomatic visit would be best explained by Manuel's need for a wife, and when King Louis declined to offer him a daughter, Manuel subsequently married Irene.
Manuel had at least two daughters whose mother is not mentioned.
They could be children by Irene or another of his wives.
One of the daughters married Demetre II of Georgia, the other married one of his Didebul.
Though mentioned in modern genealogies as a name, "Didebul" was actually a title.
According to "The Bagrationi (Bagration) Dynasty" by Christopher Buyers, the Didebul were "non-hereditary noblemen of high rank, senior to aznaur, usually enjoyed by one in state service".
Panaretos records that Manuel died in March, 1263.
He was succeeded by Andronikos II of Trebizond, his only known son by Anna Xylaloe, his first wife.
Based on a passage in the Georgian "Annals of Sebastian", Anthony Bryer has argued that Irene Syrikaina played a role in the deposition of her son George (who became Emperor in 1266 on the death of his half brother Andronikos), and thus was still alive June 1280.


References

Aname mccleeryorum
Aname mccleeryorum is a species of mygalomorph spider in the Anamidae family.
It is endemic to Australia.
It was described in 2020 by Mark Harvey, Karl Gruber, Mia Hillyer and Joel Huey.
The species epithet mccleeryorum honours the McCleery family's support for the Western Australian Museum Foundation.


Distribution and habitat
The species occurs in the Mid West region of Western Australia in kwongan heath and wandoo woodland habitats.
It is found throughout the Geraldton Sandplains bioregion, from Oakajee and the Chapman Valley southwards to the Lesueur National Park.
The type locality is the Chapman Valley.


References

Starwood Hotels (2008-)
Starwood Hotels, originally named SH Hotels & Resorts before 2025, is a hospitality company established in 2008, owned by the Starwood Capital Group.


Brands
The company currently operates the following brands:

1 Hotels
Baccarat Hotels
Treehouse Hotels


See also
Treehouse Hotel London


References

Warrick County School Corporation
The Warrick County School Corporation (WCSC) is the second largest public school-governing body in Southwestern Indiana, and the 27th largest in the state.
It is responsible for providing education to the second largest county in the area, Warrick County; its boundaries are that of the county.
The WCSC has two high schools, two middle schools, one junior/senior high school, and ten elementary schools.
Its headquarters is located at 300 East Gum Street in Boonville, Indiana.
WCSC was in one of the three Indiana counties of the Gibson-Pike-Warrick Special Education Cooperative, along with Gibson and Pike, but now operates its special education independently.


Schools


High schools

Plays football independently, but participates in the Pocket Athletic Conference in all other sports.
Tecumseh is the smallest member of the PAC by quite a stretch.
(A) Castle: 5A in football, 4A in all other classed sports.
Boonville: 4A in football, 3A in all other classed sports.


Middle schools


Other facilities
Southern Indiana Career & Technical Center


Neighboring school districts


Indiana
East Gibson School Corporation
Pike County School Corporation
South Gibson School Corporation
Evansville Vanderburgh School Corporation
Southwest Dubois County School Corporation
South Spencer School Corporation
North Spencer School Corporation


Kentucky
Henderson County School System
Daviess County Public Schools


External links
Warrick County School Corporation
WCSC Boonville High School
WCSC Castle High School
WCSC Tecumseh High School


References

Mahdiabad, Aliabad
Mahdiabad (Persian: مهدي اباد, romanized: Mahdīābād) is a village in Aliabad Rural District, in the Central District of Taft County, Yazd Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its population was 18, in 7 families.


References

Moti Masjid (Lahore Fort)
Moti Masjid (Punjabi, Urdu: موتی مسجد), one of the "Pearl Mosques", is a 17th-century religious building located inside the Lahore Fort, Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan.
It is a small, white marble structure built by Mughal emperor Jahangir and modified by the architects of Shah Jahan, and is among his prominent extensions (such as Sheesh Mahal and Naulakha pavilion) to the Lahore Fort Complex.
The mosque is located on the western side of Lahore Fort, closer to Alamgiri Gate, the main entrance.


Etymology

Moti in Urdu language means pearl, which designates a perceived preciousness to the religious structure.
It was an established practice among Mughal emperors to name the mosques after generic names for gemstones.
Other such examples are the Mina Masjid (Gem Mosque) and Nagina Masjid (Jewel Mosque), both located in Agra Fort and completed in 1637 under Shah Jahan's reign.
The mosque, built between 1630 and 1635, is the first among the "pearl" named mosques, the others built by Shah Jahan in Agra Fort (1647–53), and his son Aurangzeb in the Red Fort (1659–60).


Subsequent history
After the Mughal Empire, the mosque was converted into a Sikh temple and renamed Moti Mandir during the period of the Sikh rule under Sikh Confederacy (1760–99).
Later, Ranjit Singh also used the building for the state treasury.
After the demise of Sikh Empire, when the British took over Punjab in 1849, they discovered precious stones wrapped in bits of rags and placed in velvet purses scattered inside the mosque, along with other inventory.
The building was later revived to its former status, and the religious relics were conserved at the nearby Badshahi Mosque.


Design
The structure, located in the northwestern corner of Dewan-e-Aam quadrangle, is typical of Mughal architecture of Shah Jahan's times.
It is completely built of white marble that was brought from Makrana.
The façade is composed of cusped arches and engaged baluster columns with smooth and fine contours.
The mosque has three superimposed domes, two aisles of five bays, and a slightly raised central pishtaq, or portal with a rectangular frame.
This five-arched facade distinguishes it from other mosques of the similar class with three-arched facades.
The interior is simple and plain with the exception of ceilings that are decorated and designed in four different orders, two arcuate, and two trabeated.


Notes


See also
List of mosques in Pakistan
Badshahi Mosque
Naulakha pavilion
Shalimar Gardens
Sheesh Mahal
Walled City of Lahore


References
Asher, Catherine E G (1992) Architecture of Mughal India.
Cambridge University Press.
ISBN 0-521-26728-5
Koch, Ebba (1982) The Baluster Column: A European Motif in Mughal Architecture and Its Meaning.
Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes, Vol.
45, p.
251-262 JSTOR 750984
Koch, Ebba (1991).
Mughal Architecture: An Outline of Its History and Development, 1526–1858.
Prestel.
ISBN 3-7913-1070-4
Nadiem, Ihsan H.
(2004).
Forts of Pakistan.
Al-Faisal Publishers.
ISBN 969-503-352-0
Nath, Ravinder (1982).
History of Mughal Architecture.
Abhinav Publications.
ISBN 81-7017-414-7


External links

Digital Library of Moti Masjid at ArchNet.

Puerta de Alcántara
The Alcantara Gate (Spanish: Puerta de Alcántara) is a city gate located in Toledo, in Castile-La Mancha, Spain.
It gives access to the interior of the historic center of the city, passing through its eastern side the surrounding wall.
It is in front of the bridge called Puente de Alcántara, that crosses the Tagus river and that in turn is protected by two gates fortified in its ends.
Of Arab origin, it dates from around the 10th century, although important modifications were made during the Christian era.
It had great relevance in the defense of the city during the Middle Ages, to be the place through which people and goods entered.
The gate is a gateway in a bend, typical of Hispanic-Muslim military engineering, and its main consists of a horseshoe arch located between two square towers and crenellated with arrowslits on its sides.


References


External links

360º view of the interior of the Puerta de Alcántara

Ernest Mallet
Ernest Mallet (June 10, 1863 – December 5, 1956) was a regent of the Bank of France and a member of the Anglo-French Financial Commission during World War I.


Biography
He was born on June 10, 1863, in the 8th arrondissement of Paris.
 He married in London on May 28, 1905, Mabil St-Aubyn.
In 1915, he was part of the Anglo-French Financial Commission, which negotiated a $500 million loan for France and Britain from the United States.
He died on December 5, 1956, in the 16th arrondissement of Paris.


References

Sixth Zionist Congress
The Sixth Zionist Congress was held in Basel, opening on August 23, 1903.
Theodor Herzl caused great division amongst the delegates when he presented the "Uganda Scheme", a proposed Jewish colony in what is now part of Kenya.



Background
Following the success of Der Judenstaat, published in 1896, and the First Zionist Congress the following year, Theodor Herzl had become the undisputed leader of the Zionist movement.
He envisioned a mass migration of Jewish people "on a very large scale" to Palestine and that the colony should be "secured by public law".
For the next seven years, Herzl devoted himself to achieving this vision.
His first approach was an attempt to gain Ottoman backing.
He lobbied Sultan Abdul Hamid II with proposals for Jewish financial assistance.
In 1898 he contrived to have an interview with the Kaiser.
He approached British politicians with proposals for colonies in Cyprus and al Arish.
By 1903 none of these approaches had produced any results.
In April of that year, the Jewish population of Kishinev was subjected to a 3-day pogrom fuelled by blood libel accusations.
Initial Yiddish reports gave the number of dead as 120, though the final toll was much lower.
In August Herzl, without consulting the Zionist leadership in the Pale of Settlement, journeyed to Saint Petersburg, where he had two meetings with Vyacheslav von Plehve, Czarist Minister of the Interior, regarded by many as responsible for the Kishinev atrocities.
Von Plehve responded positively to the idea of mass emigration of Jews "without right of re-entry" but wanted help in suppressing Jewish revolutionary activity.
Herzl's meetings resulted in an official letter in which the Tzar's Government agreed to press the Sultan for a Charter allowing Zionists to colonize Palestine, agreed to finance Jewish immigration through a tax on wealthy Jews, and allow Zionist societies to function within the Tzarist Empire.
At the same time, nine days before the Congress, on his journey from St Petersburgh to Basel, Herzl received official confirmation of the British Government's endorsement of a proposal for a Jewish self-governing colony in East Africa.
It would have the capacity for 1 million settlers - the Uganda Scheme.


The Greater Actions Committee
The Greater Actions Committee met on Friday August 21, the day before the Congress's opening ceremonies.
Members of the committee were pledged to secrecy.
Many were shocked at the deterioration of Herzl's health.
The meeting began with Herzl's report on his meetings with von Plehve which had already generated opposition and criticism from Russian Zionists.
His critics in the committee doubted von Plehve's promises of support and argued that the content of letter should not be revealed to the Congress.
Herzl refused.
This discussion was followed by Herzl's announcement of the British proposal for a Jewish colony in Africa.
Herzl did not expect the degree of opposition the proposal generated, particularly from members from the Pale and Odessa.
One of his aides, Alex Marmorek, called it a "death blow to Zionism." The committee met again the following evening and, against strong opposition, Herzl had the Uganda Scheme made the centre piece of the Congress proceedings.
Herzl's diary entry for August 22 ended: "Not a single moment did it occur to any of them that of these greatest of all accomplishments to date I deserve a word of thanks, or even a smile.
Instead Messrs....
criticised me."


The Congress
Herzl's opening address presented the 592 delegates with the news of the Tsarist promises and the British proposals for a self-governing colony.
“Let us save those who can be saved.
[...] I do not doubt that the Congress will welcome the new offer with the warmest gratitude.” Despite receiving “tumultuous” applause there was serious opposition to the Uganda Scheme, particularly from the 113 delegates from the Tzarist Empire.
Max Nordau opened the following session tasked with defending acceptance of the British offer.
He argued that the colony should be seen a “shelter in the night” or an “overnight shelter” - Nachtasyl - a stepping stone on the way to Palestine.
Debate was constrained by the presence of Tzarist and Ottoman spies.
With the probability of rejection of any motion accepting the Uganda Scheme a proposal was presented to the delegates to send a fact finding mission to Africa.
It passed with 295 in favour, 178 against, but with about 100 abstentions.
The vote was followed by extraordinary scenes: the Russian members of the Action Committee left the podium.
The majority of the Russian delegates followed them out of the hall.
That evening Herzl spent several hours speaking to the protesters.
Despite a hostile reception he managed to persuade them to return for the remaining sessions.
Underlining the strength of the opposition Congress passed a motion that no Zionist funds should be provided for the investigating committee.
Amongst those supporting the Uganda Scheme was Israel Zangwill who feared a colony in Palestine would lead to an Orthodox revival “precluding modernity”.
“We could not [...] lead a modern life there.”
Another supporter was Eliezer Ben-Yehuda who was one of the few delegates with actual experience of living in Palestine.
Paradoxically both the reformist Hamizrachi and the ultra orthodox Mizrachi delegates tended to support the plan.
Chaim Weizmann, one of the most outspoken of the new generation of Zionists, gave a “violent speech” against, whereas his father and brother, who were also delegates, were in favour.
Martin Buber was one of the minority of Western European Jews who vote against.
Nachman Syrkin gave a speech criticising Herzl.
The delegate from Kishnev as well as the entire Russian leadership voted against.
The artist Ephraim Moses Lilien and 23 year old Vladimir Jabotinsky were also against.

Leon Trotsky, also 23 years old, attended in the press gallery reporting for Iskra, the Russian Socialist underground newspaper.
He predicted the imminent collapse of Zionism.


Aftermath
On 31 August, just as the Congress closed, the Ottoman ambassador to Berlin telegrammed his superiors stating that the Zionists objective was to form an independent state in Palestine and that special laws should be brought in prohibiting the purchase of land by Zionists.
In December, three months after the Congress, a 24-year-old Russian student attempted to assassinate Nordau at a Parisian Hanukkah celebration.
The attacker shouted “Death to the East African” as he fired his gun.
In Britain opposition to the Uganda Scheme from politicians was growing and by March 1904 the proposal was put on hold.
In April 1904 an opposition meeting in Vienna was organised by one of the leading Russian Zionists Menachem Ussishkin.
He had not attended the Sixth Congress and was not a Herzl supporter.
At the meeting Herzl acknowledged that the plans for colonies in Africa were over.
Zangwill split from the Zionists and set up the Jewish Territorial Organization.
Herzl died 3 July 1904.


Other delegates and attendees
David Baazov
Meir Dizengoff
Herbert Friedenwald
Shimon Yaakov Gliksberg
Chaim Hirschensohn
Yehudah Leib Levin
Hermann Maas
Nathan Mileikowsky
Nahum Nir
Mordechai Nurock
Gedaliah Silverstone
Selig Soskin


References

Cornelia James (glovemaker)
Cornelia James (née Katz; 11 March 1917 – 10 December 1999), was a British glovemaker and businesswoman.
Born in Vienna, Austria, to a Jewish family, James emigrated to the United Kingdom during the Second World War and founded her eponymous firm of glovemakers in 1946, which now holds a Royal Warrant.


Early life
Cornelia Katz was born on 11 March 1917, in Vienna, Austria, the eldest of seven children of a family who ran a chain of grocery shops and a cold storage business.
Katz studied fashion design at the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts before leaving Vienna in 1939 for Paris, and then London, with "a suitcase full of the coloured leather".


Career
She arrived in London as a refugee but soon set up a business making gloves, founding her own brand in 1946.
In 1947, she was asked by the dress designer Norman Hartnell to make the "going-away" gloves for the then-Princess Elizabeth to take on her honeymoon, following her marriage to Philip Mountbatten.
James additionally made several pairs for the Princess's trousseau, beginning her lifelong association with the British royal family.
In 1948, she became known as "the Colour Queen of England" after launching her leather gloves range in 100 different shades.

Her first workshop was on Davigdor Road in Hove, near Brighton, and was established by 1947.
 The business peaked in the 1950s when she was known as "the Queen's favourite glovemaker" and had between 250 and 500 workers in her factory in a former dairy in Brighton; however, the popularity of wearing fashion gloves eventually declined.
 Her products remained popular with royalty, with Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, The Princess Royal and Diana, Princess of Wales among her clients, as well as members of the Belgian, Dutch and Swedish royal families.
 "Cornelia James" officially became Royal Warrant of Appointment holders in 1979, and subsequently operated as the Queen's official glovemaker.


Personal life
After emigrating from Austria, she originally hoped to get a United States visa, but subsequently met Jack Burnett James and married him six weeks later, in 1940 (despite the fact that she had been engaged before leaving Vienna.)  Their son Peter James (b.
1948) is a best-selling writer of crime fiction.
Their daughter, Genevieve James Lawson, runs "Cornelia James".
James had been an active supporter of hospices and other charities throughout her time in Sussex.


Death
Cornelia James died at Martlets Hospice in Hove, Sussex, England, on 10 December 1999.


See also
Cornelia James (company)
Arnold Fulton
Herta Groves


References


External links
Official website

Abdullah Kassim Hanga
Abdullah Kassim Hanga (1932–1969) was the only Prime Minister in the history of the People's Republic of Zanzibar and Pemba from 12 January 1964 to 27 April 1964.
He was executed without trial for an alleged 1967 plot to overthrow the Karume regime in the now united new country of Tanzania.
He was the husband of Soviet activist Lily Golden, whom he was married to until his death in 1969.
They had a daughter together, Russian journalist Yelena Khanga.


References

2023 Kazakhstan Cup
The 2023 Kazakhstan Cup (known as the Fonbet Kazakhstan Cup for sponsorship reasons) was the 31st season of the Kazakhstan Cup, the annual nationwide football cup competition of Kazakhstan since the independence of the country.
FC Ordabasy were the defending champions.
Tobol won the cup on 4 November 2023 with a win over Ordabasy, qualifying for the 2024–25 UEFA Europa League first qualifying round.


Background
On 17 April, the Kazakhstan Professional Football League announced Russian betting company Fonbet as their new title sponsor.


Participating clubs
The following teams entered the competition:


Format and schedule


Group stage


Group A


Group B


Group C


Group D


Playoff stage


Knockout stage


Round of 16


Quarterfinals


Semifinals


Final


Goal scorers
As of match played 8 July 2023
13 goals:

5 goals:

4 goals:

3 goals:

2 goals:

1 goals:

Own goal


References


External links
Official website

Cheshire Championships
The Cheshire Championships a men's and women's grass court tennis tournament established by the Cheshire Lawn Tennis Association in July 1923, as the Cheshire County Lawn Tennis Championships.
The tournament ran as part of the ILTF independent tour until 1968.


History
The Cheshire Lawn Tennis Association was founded in 1890.
In March 1923 it established its first Cheshire County Lawn Tennis Championships.
In 1938 it became known simply as the Cheshire Championships.
Former winners of the men's singles title included Andras Kalman, Geoff Masters and Darrell Shaw.
The tournament ran as part of the ILTF senior men's tour until 1968.
The Cheshire County Championships are still being staged today.


References

2016 Savannah Challenger
The 2016 Savannah Challenger was a professional tennis tournament played on clay courts.
It was the seventh edition of the tournament which was part of the 2016 ATP Challenger Tour.
It took place in Savannah, Georgia, United States between April 18 and April 24, 2016.


Singles main-draw entrants


Seeds


Other entrants
The following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:

 Denis Kudla
 Brian Baker
 Tommy Paul
 Tennys Sandgren
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:

 Peter Polansky
 Nicolás Jarry
 Tomás Lipovšek Puches
 Roman Safiullin
The following players entered as a lucky loser:

 Robin Staněk


Champions


Singles

 Bjorn Fratangelo def.
 Jared Donaldson, 6–1, 6–3


Doubles

 Brian Baker /  Ryan Harrison def.
 Purav Raja /  Divij Sharan, 5–7, 7–6(7–4), [10–8]


External links
Official Website

Elisella
Elisella is a monotypic South African genus of potter wasps.
The sole species is Elisella linae.


References

Carpenter, J.M., J.
Gusenleitner & M.
Madl.
2010a.
A Catalogue of the Eumeninae (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) of the Ethiopian Region excluding Malagasy Subregion.
Part II: Genera Delta de Saussure 1885 to Zethus Fabricius 1804 and species incertae sedis.
Linzer Biologischer Beitrage 42 (1): 95-315.

Prince Kuleape Boamah
Prince Kuleape Boamah (known professionally as Kulaperry) is a Ghanaian fashion designer and wardrobe stylist.
He is noted as the creator of the "Kulaperryoutlook" and the "FearNoMan" clothing lines.


Career
As a stylist, Boamah has worked with musicians in Ghana to prepare their wardrobes for their music videos.
Most notably, he worked with Sarkodie to style his wardrobe for the music video of his Single Whine Fi Mi.
He also styled the wardrobe for Dr Cryme and Sarkodie's "Koko Sakora".
The video went on to win Best Hiplife Music Video at the Mtn 4SYTE Music Video Awards in 2016.
He has styled Ghanaian rapper and radio presenter Joel Orleans for the video to his single “Give Me Room” and DJ Kess for the 2015 Vodafone Ghana Music Awards.
In 2018, Efya collaborated with singer Kulaperry to create and release her own merchandise.


Recognition
As recognition for his work, Boamah won the 'Overall Entrepreneur of the Year' at the Young Achievers Summit Awards 2018.
His clothing line "Fear No Man Clothing" collection was also recognized as the “Emerging Brand of the year 2018” at the African Youth Choice Awards.


References

Negroland
Negroland, Nigrita, or Nigritia, is an archaic term in European mapping, referring to Europeans' descriptions of West Africa as an area populated with negroes.
 
This area comprised at least the western part of the region called Sudan (not to be confused with the modern country).
The term is probably a direct translation of the Arabic term Bilad as-Sudan (بلاد السودان), meaning "Land of the Blacks", corresponding to about the same area.
There were various kinds of people in the area.
The Persians called these areas Zangistān (زنگستان), meaning "Land of the Blacks" and the name Zang for black still remains in the name of Zanzibar (from Persian زنگبار (Zangibār) meaning "The Coast of Blacks".
The name was given by Persian navigators when they visited the area in the middle ages.
Some of the greatest states of those considered part of Negroland were the Bornu Empire and the Sokoto Caliphate.
"Negroland" represented the area between the region of Guinea and "Sahara" or "The Desert", the Sahara Desert.
The name "Sahara" is derived from the Arabic word for "desert" in the feminine irregular form, the singular ṣaḥra' (صحراء /ˈsˤaħra/), plural ṣaḥārā (صَحَارَى /ˈsˤaħaːraː/[4][5][6][7]), ṣaḥār (صَحَار), ṣaḥrāwāt (صَحْارَاوَات), ṣaḥāriy (صَحَارِي).
"Guinea", not to be confused with the modern country, then referred to the south-facing coast of West Africa and the land stretching upriver from there.
Herman Moll's 1727 map labels these "Grain Coast", "Slave Coast", and "Gold Coast".
"Negroland" was the territory to the north of this, along the east–west axis of the Niger River, and the west-facing coast.
Moll's map labels Gambia, Senegal, Mandinga and many other territories.
In 1823, approximately the same area was described as "Nigritia" on an American map published by Fielding Lucas Jr.


See also
Sahel


Sources
Encyclopædia Britannica 10th Edition (1902) Online - States of Central Africa


References

FC Viktoria 1889 Berlin
Fußball-Club Viktoria 1889 Berlin Lichterfelde-Tempelhof e.V., commonly known as FC Viktoria 1889 Berlin or Viktoria Berlin, is a German association football club based in the locality of Lichterfelde of the borough of Steglitz-Zehlendorf in Berlin.
The club was formed on 1 July 2013 from a merger of BFC Viktoria 1889 and Lichterfelder FC.
The club has the largest football department in Germany.
The club also has 1,600 active members.


History

Viktoria 1889 Berlin was formed in a merger of BFC Viktoria 1889 and Lichterfelder FC on 1 July 2013.
BFC Viktoria 1889 was one of the oldest football clubs in Germany.
It was the dominant club in Berlin in the early 1900s and won the German championship in 1908 and 1911.
Lichterfelder FC, on the other hand, was a club which had gone through a number of name changes and mergers before.
Lichterfelder FC had a women's team in the Frauen-Regionalliga by the time of the merger.
Viktoria Berlin made its debut in the 2013–14 Regionalliga Nordost, courtesy of a victory for BFC Viktoria 1889 in 2012–13 NOFV-Oberliga.
 The club won the 2013–14 Berlin Cup and thereby qualified for the first round of the 2014–15 DFB-Pokal.
The club was drawn against Bundesliga club Eintracht Frankfurt.
Viktoria Berlin lost 2–0 in front of 10,514 spectators at the Friedrich-Ludwig-Jahn-Sportpark.
Viktoria Berlin has the largest football department in Germany.
The club had 65 teams with 1,600 members as of 2016.
The club qualified for the 3.
Liga after a very successful 2020–21 season.
The club led 2020–21 Regionalliga Nordost when the Northeastern German Football Association (NOFV) decided to end the season prematurely after eleven rounds played due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The team had won all eleven matches played during the short season.


Stadium
The home ground of Viktoria Berlin is the Stadion Lichterfelde.
The stadium has a capacity of 4,300 spectators and is also the location of the club offices.
The facility also comprises two additional pitches with artificial turf.
The Stadion Lichterfelde was the former home ground of Lichterfelder FC.
BFC Viktoria 1889, on the other hand, played its home matches at the Friedrich-Ebert-Stadion in the locality of Tempelhof of the borough of Tempelhof-Schöneberg.
The Friedrich-Ebert-Stadion is now used by the U19 team of Viktoria Berlin for its matches in the Under 19 Bundesliga.
The Stadion Lichterfelde currently does not meet the requirements for play in the 3.
Liga.
Among several requirements, a capacity for 10,000 spectators, underfloor heating and a VIP-area are needed.
The stadium can not be easily converted as it is also a protected building of cultural importance.
The club had to find a new home ground in order to obtain a license for the 2021-22 3.
Liga.
Several alternatives were considered, including the Mommsenstadion and the Olympiastadion.
The club was finally allowed to play at the Friedrich-Ludwig-Jahn-Sportpark in the locality of Prenzlauer Berg in the borough of Pankow.
The operating permit for the Friedrich-Ludwig-Jahn-Stadion originally expired on 31 December 2020 and the complex is awaiting a major redevelopment.
But the Department for the Interior and Sports of the Senate of Berlin decided to made the stadium available for Viktoria Berlin for two years.
However, the capacity of the stadium will be reduced to 10,000 seats.


Seasons


Honours


Regional
Regionalliga Nordost (IV)
Winners: 2020–21
Berlin Cup (III–VII)
 Winners:  2013–14, 2018–19, 2021–22, 2024
Runners-up: 2019–20


Current squad
As of 4 February 2025

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply.
Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


References


External links
Official website 
FC Viktoria 1889 Berlin Weltfussball.de

William Heberden the Younger
William Heberden the Younger (23 March 1767 – 19 February 1845) was a British physician.
He was born in London the son of the medical doctor William Heberden the Elder and his wife Mary Wollaston.
He was educated at Charterhouse School and St John's College, Oxford and followed his father into medicine becoming the Physician at St George's Hospital (1793–1803) and Physician in Ordinary to the Queen (1806) and to George III (1809).
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1791.
He lived at 2 Upper Brook Street, Mayfair from 1815 to 1820.
He died in 1845, and was buried in the family vault at Windsor.
He had married Elizabeth Catherine Miller in 1795; they had at least nine children.


References


External links
Stephen, Leslie; Lee, Sidney, eds.
(1891).
"Heberden, William (1767-1845)" .
Dictionary of National Biography.
Vol.
25.
London: Smith, Elder & Co.
William Heberden papers, 1790–1837 (inclusive).
H MS c25.
Harvard Medical Library, Francis A.
Countway Library of Medicine, Boston, Mass.

Gibril Adamu Mohammed
Gibril Adamu Mohammed was a Ghanaian politician of the Republic of Ghana.
He was the Member of Parliament representing Asawase constituency of the Ashanti Region of Ghana in the 4th Parliament of the 4th Republic of Ghana.
He was a member of the National Democratic Congress.


Career
Mohammed was a medical doctor by profession.


Political career
Mohammed was a member of the National Democratic Congress.
He became a member of parliament from January 2005 after emerging winner in the General Election in December 2004.
He was elected as the member of parliament for the Asawase constituency in the fourth parliament of the fourth Republic of Ghana.


Elections
Mohammed was elected as the member of parliament for the Asawase constituency of the Ashanti Region of Ghana for the first time in the 2004 Ghanaian general elections.
 He won on the ticket of the National Democratic Congress.
His constituency was a part of the three parliamentary seats out of 39 seats won by the National Democratic Congress in that election for the Ashanti Region.
The National Democratic Congress won a minority total of 94 parliamentary seats out of 230 seats.
 He was elected with 33,541 votes out of 67,485 total valid votes cast.
This was equivalent to 49.7% of total valid votes cast.
He was elected over Thomas Atigah of the People's National Convention, Patricia Appiagyei of the New Patriotic Party, Hassan B.
A.
Abu-Bong of the Convention People's Party, Adam Diyawu Rahaman of the Democratic People's Party and Abdul Majeed Alhassan an independent candidate.
These obtained 1,598, 29,067, 570, 204 and 2,505 votes respectively of total votes cast.
These were equivalent to 2.4%, 43.1%, 0.8%, 0.3%  and 3.7% respectively of total valid votes cast.


Personal life
Mohammed was a Muslim.


Death
Mohammed died shortly after winning the parliamentary seat for Asawase constituency on 15 February 2005.


See also
List of MPs elected in the 2004 Ghanaian parliamentary election


References

Lynne Talley
Lynne Talley (born May 18, 1954) is a physical oceanographer at Scripps Institution of Oceanography known for her research into the large-scale circulation of water masses in the global ocean.


Early life and education
Talley received a B.A.
in physics in 1976 from Oberlin College and a Bachelor of Music (B.M.) in piano performance from Oberlin Conservatory of Music.
The following year, she studied piano performance with Carl Seeman at the Hochschule für Musik Freiburg in Freiburg, Germany.
She continued her studies at the New England Conservatory of Music.
After moving to San Diego, she studied music at San Diego State University.
Talley started oceanographic research as a graduate student and completed a Ph.D.
in physical oceanography from the Joint Program in Oceanography at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in 1982.
After a postdoctoral research position at Oregon State University, she joined the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in 1984.


Career and impact
Talley has worked at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego since 1984, and was named a distinguished professor in 2012.
While at Scripps, her research has combined analysis of ocean observations with advanced theoretical work to describe and map large-scale circulation.
Her work involves analysis of data from most of the world's oceans, depicting the movement of heat, salinity, and water masses, and the formation of water masses, particularly in subpolar regions.
In addition to academic publications, she has published a graduate level textbook on descriptive physical oceanography and two oceanographic atlases.
From 2004 to 2007 she was a lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Working Group and a lead author of the Fourth Assessment Report Working Group I chapter of the group's final report titled: "Observations: Oceanic Climate Change and Sea Level", which was released in February 2007.
The report earned contributing scientists a share of the Nobel Peace Prize later that year.
She was also a lead author on the same topic for the Fifth Assessment Report.
Talley has a long history of seagoing experiences.
In 2000, Talley and co-principal investigator, Daniel Rudnick, worked with moorings and hydrography on the collaborative Okhotsk Sea dense water formation project.
In 2005-2006, Talley used hydrography, CTD, and profiling floats to understand Antarctic Intermediate Water formation in the southeast Pacific.
Since 2016, Talley has led the observation team of the SOCCOM project: Southern Ocean Carbon and Climate Observations and Modeling (SOCCOM), which is deploying biogeochemical profiling Argo floats throughout the Southern Ocean south of 30S.
Starting in 2020, Talley has been one of the principal investigators for the Global Ocean Biogeochemistry Array (GO-BGC), which has begun deploying biogeochemical Argo floats globally.
She also continues as a principal investigator and member of the steering committee of the ongoing U.S.
GO-SHIP, which organizes and carries out the U.S.
component of the international GO-SHIP program of deep-sea hydrographic cruises throughout the world's oceans.
Talley received the Albatross Award which has passed from one oceanographer to the next since 1959 and was presented to Talley at the 2016 Ocean Sciences meeting.
In 2024 she was elected to the U.S.
National Academy of Sciences.


Honors
1987 - Presidential Young Investigator (National Science Foundation)
2001 - Rosenstiel Award (Rosenstiel School of Marine, Atmospheric, and Earth Science, University of Miami)
2003 - Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences
2003 - Huntsman Award (Bedford Institute of Oceanography)
2006 - Fellow, American Geophysical Union
2008 - Fellow, American Meteorological Society
2010 - Fellow, The Oceanography Society
2016 - Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science
2017 - Prince Albert I Medal International Association for the Physical Sciences of the Oceans (IAPSO)
2017 - Fridtjof Nansen Medal (European Geosciences Union)
2017 - Henry Stommel Research Award (American Meteorological Society)


References


External links
Lynne Talley publications indexed by Google Scholar

Red Mountain Park
Red Mountain Park is a 1,500-acre public urban park that encloses a 4.5-mile-long section of Red Mountain, a prominent ridge that passes through Birmingham, Alabama.
The woodland park contains closed mines and other artifacts of the city's industrial history.
The park is one of the largest urban parks in the United States - about 78% larger than Central Park in New York City.



History
The park is located on land formerly owned by U.S.
Steel and devoted to ore mines.
The last mine closed in 1971.

Planning for a park on the site began by 2004.
In 2005, the Freshwater Land Trust announced a campaign to raise funds to purchase and develop the park, and an organization called the Friends of Red Mountain Park was formed.
The initial site was 1,200 acres in size.

In 2006, the Alabama Legislature designated the unfinished project as part of the Alabama state parks system and created the Red Mountain Greenway and Recreational Commission "to own, preserve, restore, maintain and promote the park." In 2007, the legislature designated the commission a state agency with exclusive control over the park and responsibility for its planning and development.
The park's master plan received an award from the American Society of Landscape Architects in 2012.
The park opened to the public in 2012.
By 2016, the park grew from 1,200 to 1,500 acres and added features including a 6-acre off-leash dog park.
Using automated traffic counting equipment, the park staff estimated that the park received about 11,000 visitors per month in 2015.
In 2015, the park briefly employed a herd of goats to help eliminate kudzu, Chinese privet (Ligustrum sinense), and other invasive plants.


References


External links
Red Mountain Park

Triple M Melbourne
Triple M Melbourne is a radio station broadcasting in Melbourne, Victoria.
Its target demographic is the 18-54 age group.
Triple M Melbourne is part of Southern Cross Austereo's Triple M Network and broadcasts on the 105.1 MHz frequency.
The station was Australia's first commercial FM station, originally known as Eon FM, broadcasting on 92.3 MHz.


Station history
 


Eon FM: The Birth of Commercial FM Radio
In late 1979, a consortium, members of which included recording entrepreneur Bill Armstrong, band manager Glenn Wheatley and stockbroker Bill Conn, successfully bid on one of two Melbourne FM licenses and set about creating a commercial FM radio station.
Armstrong headed the consortium, having seen the commercial opportunities of FM radio in the US and the UK.
Despite what their license application read, they had no blueprint at all with regard to marketing, programming, administration or promotion.
The next six months was then spent building a radio station from scratch.
A makeshift studio was set up in Bank Street, South Melbourne, draped with hessian to deaden the noise.
Late-night dummy runs were performed a week before the on-air date to test the equipment.
On 11 July 1980, Australia's first commercial FM radio station, Eon FM, began broadcasting on 92.3 MHz, beating Fox FM to the title by two weeks.
Peter Grace, formerly a DJ for 3XY (now Magic 1278) was the first voice heard on the station; he later said he was given that late night spot by default.
"It's one past midnight and this is 92.3, E-O-N FM, I'm Peter Grace and this is the beginning of a long, long time..." The first song was "New Kid in Town" by The Eagles.
Armstrong was the first managing director; Clyde Simpson, the first general manager; Lee Simon, also ex-3XY, the first program director; Billy Pinnell, first music programmer – all names to circulate the Australian music industry for years.
Other announcers included Mike Nicholls, Karl Van Est, Joe Miller, John Peters, Andy McLean, Jan Cannon, Paul Cashmere, Kenny The Paper-Boy, Kent Forbes, John Hood, Gavin Wood, Trish Mulholand, Craig Huggins and Mark Irvine.
Newsreader Jennifer Keyte also began her career as a cadet at Eon FM.
At first, Eon FM played songs that "would not be played elsewhere", having no playlist and avoiding Top 40 songs.
Said Armstrong, "we thought we were going to be the beginning of a new era.
It took us a while to realise we were wrong."
Eon FM performed better than the other non-commercial FM stations, but was easily beaten by the AM stations.
Management was worried, and shareholders were asked to invest another $1 million between them only a year after the station was launched.
Programme Director Lee Simon then went against the flow of the album rock formats favoured by Australia's FM stations and radically changed Eon's format by playing Top 40 hits and staging outdoor concerts.
Molly Meldrum, host of Countdown, was even invited to do a regular breakfast spot with Gavin Wood, the voice-over man of Countdown.
Gavin and Molly's partnership included a segment of their own version of the crime fighters "Batman and Robin".
They even appeared in the Moomba procession as the crime fighting duo in the Batmobile.
The combination of Gavin and Molly proved to be a ratings winner when finally in 1985, Eon FM topped Melbourne's ratings.
Ken Gibson was the stations first Advertising and Marketing Manager.
In early 1986, 3EON FM was sold to Triple M Sydney, owned by Hoyts, for $37.5 million.
The deal was reportedly negotiated by Wheatley, who subsequently became the managing director of Hoyts Media.
The station was rebranded 3MMM on 27 November 1988, and was moved to the current frequency.


Triple M Melbourne
In 1987, a new style of breakfast show had begun taking shape on 3MMM featuring a team of comedians known as The D-Generation.
With a successful sketch show on ABC TV behind them and initially hired in 1986 by Lee Simon to write comedy pieces for The John Peters Breakfast Show, the team of Tom Gleisner (1986–92), Santo Cilauro (1986–92), Rob Sitch (1986, 1989–91), Tony Martin (1987–91), Michael Veitch (1987–89), Mick Molloy (1990–92), and Jason Stephens (1990–92), successfully took over the breakfast air waves; even recruiting a member of the news team, Jane Kennedy (1988–92).
(Marg Downey, Magda Szubanski and Judith Lucy also had small stints on the show).
The show had a number of anchors during its run, notably Ian Rogerson (1987), Peter O’Callaghan (1988) and Kevin Hillier (1990–92), but it is the sixteen month 'anchorless' period (September 88-December 89) that is best-remembered by fans.
The show had a popular mix of sketches, characters and clever comedy, producing a number of best-of CDs.
In September 1990, 3MMM moved from the original South Melbourne premises to the 8th Floor, 140 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The on-air line-up in 1991 consisted of:

Station Floater: Craig Huggins
In late 1991, the D-Generation team successfully pitched The Late Show (1992–1993) to ABC TV.
Sitch and Martin immediately left the radio show to prepare, with the rest of the team following in April to star in it.
Richard Stubbs, another ex-3XY DJ, moved from the morning slot to the newly vacated breakfast position.
Tim Smith and then Brigitte Duclos, who, like Jane Kennedy earlier, began working at the station as a newsreader, joined him to form The Richard Stubbs Breakfast Show.
Saturday nights hosted Live from the Ivy, a dance music program hosted live from the Ivy Club in Melbourne.


Joining Austereo
In 1994, the Triple M network, owned by Hoyts, was sold to Village Roadshow, who, on 1 December 1994, sold the network to Austereo, owner of the Today Network, in return for a 53.5% share of Austereo.
This gave Austereo, and therefore Village Roadshow, control of two national networks.
The merger of two formerly competing radio stations created some rivalries in each of the capital cities.
In Melbourne, it was rumoured that Richard Stubbs received some flack for spending time in the Fox FM offices with his brother, announcer Peter Stubbs, better known as Grubby, who was co-hosting a breakfast show on Fox FM at the time).
However, over the years the two stations have regularly swapped stars between themselves when an existing role hasn't suited.

In 1996, Triple M moved from its home in central Melbourne to the first Floor of the Fox FM building at 180 St Kilda Road, St Kilda.
Triple M continues to share resources with its sister station, such as the traffic reports.
Meanwhile, The Richard Stubbs Breakfast Show continued to deliver a strong performance for Triple M Melbourne.
In 1995, an attempt was made to network the show in Sydney, but it ultimately failed, being replaced by a local team in Sydney headed by Andrew Denton.
At the start of 1996, Tim Smith left the breakfast show to join forces with Steve Bedwell in a morning show called The Squirrel Grippers, while Duclos moved to drive for The Grill Team, a reworking of the original Grill Team format pioneered by Triple M Melbourne in the early 1990s, merging sport, comedy and music – a formula to filter throughout the station.
The Grill Team also included ex-footballer Dermott Brereton and future Channel 9 CEO Eddie McGuire.
On breakfast, Richard Stubbs continued with two new team members until the end of 1997, when he retired from radio, much to Triple M's disappointment.
(He did, however, return to radio in later years with other networks).
The Squirrel Grippers were chosen as Stubb's replacement, moving from the mornings to breakfast.
Renaming themselves as Timbo & Bedders for Breakfast, they continued Stubbs' success from 1998 to 2001.
After The Grill Team departed from the drive slot, Triple M moved the eccentric show Crud with Tony Moclair and Julian Schiller, which began life on community station 3RRR, from the evening slot into drive.
Crud became best known for the character of Guido Hatzis, a self-confessed 'adonis' of ethnic descent who would call people with the intention of stirring them up.
(A common radio theme)
Triple M tested the concept of FM talkback in 1999 with The Spoonman adding his controversial opinion every weeknight.
The program was shelved at the end of the year, but returned in 2005 in almost exactly the same format.
At the start of 2002, seemingly to capitalise on Smith and Bedwell's success, the station moved Smith to the drive slot (following Cruds departure) to create a new show The Cage with previous colleague Brigitte Duclos, leaving Bedwell to head a new breakfast team.
Called The Morning Madhouse, it included former Big Brother contestant Rachel Corbett, with ex-cricketer James Brayshaw featuring as a sports reporter.
It was a ratings failure.
The Cage involved a revolving door of guests and comedians including Matt Parkinson (Parko), Matt Quartermaine (Quarters) (who together were the Empty Pockets comedy duo) Trevor Marmalade and Russell Gilbert.
The show performed well and was moved to the vacant breakfast slot only 3 months after it began.
A relay of the breakfast show, with about 20% new content, kept the drive slot warm for the following few months.
James Brayshaw remained at breakfast and eventually joined The Cage full-time, which at the same time lost Marmalade and Gilbert.
Triple M eventually decided in July 2002 to concentrate The Cage on breakfast only, and filled the drive slot for next 13 months with a couple of one-announcer shows.
Also in 2002, James 'Turbo' Anderson joined the daytime lineup, promoted from the midnight – dawn position.
At the age of 21, 'Turbo' was the youngest announcer in the country at the time to be given a prime time shift in a major metropolitan market.
 He continued with the network through until 2005, leaving his mark with the number one position across Melbourne in the afternoons time slot with a 13.8 share of the market.
Following the success of outdoor concerts such as Big Day Out and Rumba, Triple M ran their own full-day concert, called M-One.
It featured Garbage, Billy Idol, Goo Goo Dolls, Midnight Oil and Nickelback.
In Melbourne, it was held at Docklands Stadium) on Saturday 12 October 2002.
It was moderately successful, but didn't sell as many tickets as expected.
It was therefore seen as a financial failure and not run again.


Networked radio
While Triple M Melbourne's line-up was proving successful during 2003, the Sydney station was in a ratings dive, partly due to the popularity of a then-new competitor, Nova.
In August 2003, Triple M again tried networking Melbourne's successful breakfast show in Sydney, with The Cage gaining former Sydney breakfast member Peter Berner to ease in the new market.
(Matt Quartermaine had departed a few months earlier).
Slowly, but surely, Sydney began to accept the new show, which featured local breaks for traffic and news.
(Brisbane also has a breakfast show called The Cage, but it is in name only and comprises a different team.)
At the same time a fresh new show began in the drive slot – The Whole Shebang.
It starred comedians Marty Sheargold, Jo Stanley and Jodie J.
Hill with Fifi Box and Byron Cooke, plus another Sydney breakfast show ex-member, Mikey Robins.
The show was initially broadcast into both Sydney and Melbourne, with Brisbane added later and Adelaide receiving it for a brief time.
Triple M also began a new frequent listener's initiative in August 2003 with the Freq Club.
It involved listening for code words, which could be accumulated and redeemed for prizes.
At the end of 2003, Matt Parkinson left The Cage to pursue other interests, and The Whole Shebang dropped most of the team (and the 'Whole' part), leaving Sheargold and Box as a duo, with Cooke as anchor (Cooke later moved to the US, to be replaced by Rohan "Brownie" Brown, a morning announcer).
Parkinson eventually rejoined The Cage in 2005 when Tim Smith left to try other things at Triple M, before eventually leaving the station after almost 14 years there.
(He later moved to rival station Mix 101.1 to host breakfast with Tracy Bartram 3 months later)
In 2004, Mick Molloy returned to Triple M with Tough Love from 10:00 am to 12:00 pm.
He was joined by Robyn Butler, Alan Brough and Richard Molloy (aka "Roo").
Alan left the show at the end of 2004 and it shifted to 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, presumably to allow Molloy to work on other projects.
At the end of 2006, Molloy ended the show, sarcastically saying "The relentless grind of a one-hour national radio show has finally taken its toll.
The midday starts were also brutal, often playing havoc with my sleeping patterns."
Molloy's sparring partner Tony Martin also re-joined the station in 2006 with Get This.
The show was co-hosted by Ed Kavalee with a different guest each day.
During 2006, the show ran from 09:00 am – 10:00 am weekdays, moving to 11:00 am – 1:00 pm and then 2:00 pm in 2007.
At the end of 2006, Triple M confirmed that The Shebang would be moved to breakfast in Sydney, while The Cage would focus solely on Melbourne, ending the breakfast networking experiment again.
Chas and Dom from The Chaser filled the drive slot during the summer break, with Wil & Lehmo moving in permanently from 2 April 2007, broadcasting to all Triple M stations.
The Freq Club was eventually ended in 2005, replaced with a 'Music Jury' in 2006, where anyone can sign-up and are then sent, on a weekly basis, a survey of 30 songs which are judged by how liked it is and how tired you are of it.
In 2005, Triple M's slogan became "You’ll Never Know What We’ll Play Next".
Coupled with this was the suggestion that the music director was a monkey called Barry, and featured an ad campaign where on-air talent were subjected to his mood.
By the end of 2006, the Barry aspect featured less in the station IDs.
Since that time, it was jokingly mentioned on Get This that 'the monkey is not to be mentioned'.
Starting from 29 January 2007, Triple M began using a new slogan, "At Least We Take The Music Seriously"; however this has been slowly reverted to "You'll Never Know What We'll Play Next".
From 17 September 2007, Get This was moved to the 2-4pm slot – the third move since the program started.
The reason was to provide one long stream of talk: from 2pm when Get This starts, until 6pm when Wil and Lehmo finishes.
On 15 October 2007, Tony Martin revealed to listeners that "Get This" would be axed at the end of November.
This has caused many listeners to voice their unhappy opinions in TV/Radio guides (such as The Age's Green Guide), on petitions and on Wikipedia.
The last show was broadcast on 23 November 2007.
The Cage was also axed at the end of 2007, shortly after member James Brayshaw announced he was leaving.
"The Cage had run its cycle in Melbourne," according to Austereo's group programme director Guy Dobson.
"It's all a fiscal decision.
Nothing is done lightly and nothing is done with malice." The Cage ended on Thursday 22 November 2007 after 5 years, with the Essential 2007 Countdown filling for the usual Friday show.


Recent history
In December 2007, Triple M revived the slogan "Home of Rock, Sport and Comedy", previously used in the late 1990s, which announcers and advertisements used instead of "You'll Never Know What We'll Play Next".

Triple M announced that Peter Helliar had been chosen to lead a new breakfast show in Melbourne in 2008, joined by Myf Warhurst.
 Pete & Myf began 21 January 2008, with the late Richard Marsland (previously on Get This) joining as anchor from 29 January 2008.
On 11 July 2008, Triple M celebrated their 28th birthday, playing many of the original EON FM jingles throughout the day, with Lee Simon, Peter Grace, Karl Van Est and Jennifer Keyte reminiscing from 12:00 pm to 2:00 pm.
During that time, Keyte reprised her role as a news presenter.
In September 2008, Triple M Melbourne re-located from their St Kilda Road studios, to brand new upgraded studios in South Melbourne.
In early 2009, the building was named the Richard Marsland Studios, in honour of the popular panel operator and on-air presenter who had taken his own life in December 2008.
At the end of 2008, Wil & Lehmo finished their drive-time show, which was replaced by Roy and HG (Monday and Friday) and local announcers (Tuesday-Thursday).
On Tuesday 7 July 2009, due to low ratings, the station announced that Peter Helliar and Myf Warhurst's breakfast show had been axed, with the last show aired on Friday 31 July.
On 7 September 2009, the new breakfast show, The Hot Breakfast with Eddie McGuire, Luke Darcy and Mieke Buchan commenced broadcasting.
Comedian Mick Molloy eventually replaced Buchan and remained on the show until 2017, when he transitioned to a national drive time show, Kennedy and Molloy with Jane Kennedy, with Wil Anderson taking Molloy's place.
In May 2021, Southern Cross Austereo announced that the station with sister station Fox FM would re-locate to 101 Moray Street, South Melbourne from mid-2022 after signing a 10-year lease.
The move was completed in June 2022 with the network taking up approximately 3,000sqm on the second floor of the state-of-the-art commercial building.


Sports coverage
In 1992, Eddie McGuire was given the green light and the Saturday morning timeslot to launch The Grill Team, a groundbreaking 3-hour sport show which also featured Jane Kennedy and comedians Trevor Marmalade, Tim Smith, Matt Quartermaine and Sergio Paradise.
The Grill Team rapidly gained momentum and ratings with its unique blend of Rock, Sport and Comedy, a format which was rolled out across the entire station in the ensuing years.
The introduction of The Grill Team on Triple M Melbourne in the early 90s is considered by many industry insiders to be the precursor to Channel 9's long running AFL The Footy Show which debuted in 1994 with Eddie McGuire, Trevor Marmalade and former Geelong great, John "Sammy" Newman.
The success of the Saturday morning Grill Team led to the introduction of even more sport based programming on Triple M including The World According to Pig, Jimmy and Rooboy with AFL legends Jason Dunstall, James Hird and Wayne Carey, Dougy and Dunstall, and more recently, The Gospel and Dead Set Legends.
In 1995, Programme Director, Lee Simon noted that Triple M's ratings were dropping off over the weekends in increasing numbers.
Most of Triple M's audience were watching or listening to Australian rules football.
(known as footy or AFL)
Simon suggested that Triple M broadcast footy on weekends.
Triple M's board initially resisted, but Simon was persistent.
3MMM finally won broadcast approval in 1997, and has since become the top-rating AFL broadcaster.
Triple M began using the slogan "Rock, Sport and Comedy" on the back of the gaining of the football rights, until early 2000.
In October 2006, Triple M was granted AFL broadcast rights for a further 3 years.


Transmission
3MMM transmits from the ATV transmission tower on top of Mount Dandenong.
It is an NEC FBN-11K10E FM transmitter with a base power of 6 kW.


Digital radio
Triple M is simulcast on digital radio in Melbourne.
Triple M launched High Voltage Radio, a "pop up" Digital Radio station that exclusively plays AC/DC for the duration of the band's 2010 tour of Australia.
High Voltage ceased transmission on 15 March 2010.


References


Other references
3 Triple M, "3 Triple M – Rock of the 90s", Triple M Company Profile, circ.
1991
"Austereo Group Profile", http://www.austereo.com.au/profiles/index.php, retrieved 7 March 2005
Brady, Nicole, "Radio Waves: Melbourne show makes a splash in harbour city", The Age Green Guide, page 6, 20 November 2003
Brady, Nicole, "Radio Waves", TheAge.com.au, 1 September 2005
Crawford, Anne, "Birth of FM radio was an EON ago", TheAge.com.au, 11 July 2000
Molitorisz, Sacha, "How FM changed the mix", smh.com.au, 15 April 2004
"Richard Stubbs Profile", [4], retrieved 8 March 2006
"Triple M website", retrieved 3 February 1999, 6 July 2001, 26 July 2002, 13 October 2003, at the Internet Archive
Unknown, "Rebels without a pause", smh.com.au, 17 March 2004


External links
Triple M Melbourne

Richard Garrard (rower)
Richard Garrard (born 26 July 1943) is an Australian former representative rower.
He was a seven-time Australian national champion who rowed at the elite level for a fifteen-year period from 1964-79 initially in the open division and later as a lightweight.
He competed in the men's coxless four event at the 1964 Summer Olympics and won a bronze medal at the 1977 World Rowing Championships.


Club and state rowing
Raised in Melbourne, Gerrard was educated at and took up rowing at Xavier College, Melbourne in 1958.
He joined the Mercantile Rowing Club in 1959 whilst still at school and won a novice pair in that year.
He first won a Victorian state championship in 1962 aged nineteen with Bob Lachal in a coxed pair.
Victorian state selection first came for Gerrard in 1963, but as a reserve for the King's Cup eight and he did not race in a state crew till 1966 when he was in the bow seat of the Victorian eight which won the King's Cup that year.
That would be his sole state appearance at the Interstate Regatta.
In Mercantile colours on several occasions and much later in Corio Bay Rowing Club colours Garrard contested national championships at the Australian Rowing Championships.
He won six national titles, racing for Mercantile between 1964 and 1979 - twice in a coxless four (1964 and 1966); in a coxless pair in 1974; and three times in the lightweight eight (1975, 1976 and 1977).


International representative rowing
Representative selection first came for Gerrard aged just 20 when he was picked to row in an all Mercantile coxless four at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics.
They were eliminated in the repechage.
In the 1966 at the second ever World Championships in Bled, Garrard raced again in an all Mercantile four who were eliminated in the repechage.
In 1967 Garrard was selected at stroke of the Australian men's eight for a four race Trans-Tasman series against New Zealand.
They lost all four of the match races.
After a long gap and a shift down to the lightweight division Garrard was back in national representative contention for the 1977 World Rowing Championships in Amsterdam.
That eight rowed to a bronze medal.


Rowing palmares


References

Reggie Corrigan
Reggie Corrigan (born 19 November 1970) is a former Irish rugby union footballer, playing at loose-head prop-forward.
He attended school in Presentation College, Bray.
Corrigan made his international debut against Canada in November 1997.
He played for Ireland in the Rugby World Cup finals, in 1999 and 2003.
He captained Ireland on two occasions against Tonga and Western Samoa in 2003.
He was a member of the Triple Crown winning side in 2004.
He won the last of his 47 caps against France in the 2006 Six Nations Championship.
Corrigan continued to play club rugby and stayed at Leinster until the end of the 2006–07 season.
At time of retirement, he had more appearances (138) for Leinster than any other player.
Though that appearance record has since been beaten by players such as Brian O'Driscoll and Gordon D'Arcy.
Reggie now runs a healthy options menu to the students in Presentation College Bray where he went to school.
He also is a permanent commentator on Setanta Ireland with rugby analysis.
He lives in Greystones with his wife Frieda and their son Nathan.
He was appointed scrummaging coach at Leinster for the 2009/10 season.


Notes

Jeremy R. Paul
Jeremy R.
Paul (born July 22, 1956), is an American lawyer and law professor who was the Dean of Northeastern University School of Law from 2012 until June 2018.


Education
Paul graduated from Princeton University in 1978 and received his Juris Doctor degree from Harvard in 1981.


Career
Jeremy Paul joined the Northeastern University School of Law faculty as dean in 2012.
He teaches Constitutional Law, Property and Jurisprudence.
A 1978 graduate of Princeton University, he received his Juris Doctor degree from Harvard in 1981.
Before coming to Northeastern, Dean Paul served for 23 years on the faculty of the University of Connecticut School of Law, where he was Dean and Thomas F.
Gallivan, Jr.
Professor of Real Property Law from 2007 until 2012.
 Dean Paul served as associate dean for academic affairs at UConn Law from 1999 until 2004, when he was named associate dean for research.
Dean Paul previously served as a law clerk to Judge Irving Robert Kaufman of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; as Professor-in-Residence at the Appellate Staff of the Civil Division of the U.S.
Department of Justice and as Assistant to the President of TravelersGroup.
Paul has taught at the University of Miami as both assistant and associate professor, and at Boston College Law School as a visiting professor.


Writings
Dean Paul's writings have appeared in the Texas Law Review, the Michigan Law Review, the University of Southern California Law Review, and the Washington Monthly.
 His writings include (with Michael Fischl) the book Getting to Maybe: How to Excel on Law School Exams  and a widely used introduction to legal reasoning titled "A Bedtime Story."
Dean Paul has served on the Board of Directors of the Connecticut Bar Foundation and the Advisory Board of the Connecticut Law Tribune.
 He is also a former Board Member of the Connecticut Civil Liberties Union.


References

Amata interniplaga
Amata interniplaga is a moth of the family Erebidae.
It was described by Paul Mabille in 1890.
It is found in the Republic of the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gabon and Nigeria.


References

Henry Cobden Turner
Henry Cobden Turner (1888–1970, also known as Harry Cobden Turner) was an English engineer, businessman, and managing director of Salford Electrical Instruments (SEI).


Life and career
Cobden Turner attended Manchester Grammar School, Salford Technical School, and Manchester College of Technology.
He was made managing director of SEI in 1918, overseeing advancements in instrumentation.
Before the outbreak of the Second World War he also became a councillor for Salford, concerning himself with the plight of the unemployed in the city.
After the Nazis came to power, he became concerned about the lack of defence technology to counter the threat of aggression.

Shortly before the war began, he had learned from his friend Hans Ferdinand Mayer who worked at Siemens, and who he had met at the CCIF telecommunications conference in Oslo in 1938, that the Germany was working on developing influence fuses for its artillery.
This inspired them to use their combined skills to propose a new kind of fuze.
From late 1939, Cobden Turner contributed to the development of the radio proximity fuse, a critical innovation in military technology.
A high frequency oscillator would transit disruptive signals to bombs, causing them to detonate.
On 8 May 1940 a proposal for the device was submitted to the Royal Aircraft Establishment.
He continued to communicate with Mayer via an intermediary in neutral Denmark throughout the war.
Together they organised the escape of a Jewish girl from Nazi Germany, who then lived with Cobden Turner and his family at their home.
Mayer was later revealed as the source of the Oslo Report, one of the biggest German military leaks of the war, which he had planned to send to Cobden Turner, but ultimately decided it was safer to send it to the British Legation in Oslo.
There, it ended up in the hands of military intelligence specialist Reginald Victor Jones.

By chance, Cobden Turner met Reginald Victor Jones in person while travelling in 1953, beginning several years of correspondence between the two.
He also consulted with him on technical matters on behalf of SEI until he retired from his role there in 1957.
Jones pushed for official recognition of Cobden Turner's work.
Henry Cobden Turner died in 1970.


Professional bodies
He became a full member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE) in 1924, and was elected a Fellow in 1966.
He served on the IEE North-Western Centre Committee from 1927 to 1939, held the position of vice-chairman from 1939 to 1941, and served as chairman from 1941 to 1942.
He also chaired the IEE Meter and Instrument Section Committee in 1937–1938.


References

Miles O'Brien (Star Trek)
Miles Edward O'Brien is a character in the Star Trek franchise, portrayed by actor Colm Meaney.
O'Brien appears occasionally in all seven seasons of Star Trek: The Next Generation and is a main cast member of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.
O'Brien was originally the transporter chief of the USS Enterprise-D.
He was later promoted to chief of operations of Deep Space Nine.
Being portrayed in 225 episodes overall, O'Brien is the Star Trek character with the second most appearances in the Star Trek franchise, second only to Worf (portrayed by Michael Dorn).
O'Brien is the only major Star Trek character described as both ethnically Irish and born in Ireland; Colm Meaney, the actor who portrays him, is Irish.
O'Brien is also the only regular cast member in Star Trek to be a non-commissioned officer.


Early appearances
According to Colm Meaney, at first O'Brien "was just there, not really established as a character, and that went on for a bit." He has a few lines in the pilot episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Appearing on and off in subsequent episodes, mainly operating the ship's transporters, it wasn't until a second-season episode that Meaney's character was named, and the second episode of season 4 before the character's first name was indicated and his personal life began to be developed.
However, Meaney came to like the arrangement of being hired on an episode-by-episode basis, and was hesitant to sign on as a regular on Deep Space Nine.
Miles O'Brien is the first of two characters that moved from The Next Generation to be a main character on Deep Space Nine, followed by Worf after The Next Generation ended.



Character postings
USS Rutledge
Junior tactical officer
Setlik III – skirmish with Cardassian forces during the Cardassian/Federation War
USS Enterprise-D
Conn officer
Transporter chief
Operations and engineering
Acting tactical officer
Deep Space Nine (Federation administered Bajoran station)
Chief of Operations
Chief Engineer USS Defiant (support starship assigned to Deep Space Nine)
Starfleet Academy – San Francisco, California, Earth
Professor of Engineering


Character story


Backstory
Miles O'Brien was born in Killarney, County Kerry, Ireland, Earth, in September 2328.
His father, Michael O'Brien, wanted him to play the cello, so he pursued this and was eventually accepted into the Aldebaran Music Academy However, a few days before he was scheduled to start classes there, he enlisted in Starfleet.
O'Brien plays a cello as part of Data's string quartet.
He has two brothers.
O'Brien served as tactical officer aboard the USS Rutledge during the Cardassian War He was emotionally scarred by the Cardassians' massacre of hundreds of civilians on Setlik III.
O'Brien does not remember how many Cardassians he killed, because he killed "so many".
O'Brien jokingly claims to be a direct descendant of real-life Irish High King Brian Boru (according to Irish tradition, all people with the surname "O'Brien" are Boru's descendants).
Later, he speaks more seriously of fictional ancestor Sean Aloysius O'Brien, a major player in one of the first US workers' unions, who participated in the Coal Strike of 1902 in Pennsylvania and was shot then dumped into the Allegheny River.
A point of pride, he spoke about how he was from a long line of Union Men.
During O'Brien's 22 years in Starfleet, he had fought in 235 separate battles and had been decorated by Starfleet on 15 occasions, and was considered to be an expert in starship combat, by both Starfleet and Klingon authorities.


Depiction in Star Trek: The Next Generation
O'Brien's first appearance in Star Trek: The Next Generation was in the series premiere episode as the battle bridge flight controller.
In his only other appearance in the first season, he is a security guard.
Starting with the second-season premiere, O'Brien has his regular role as the ship's transporter operator.
In the following episode, when Riker and Worf prepare to beam to the USS Yamato, Riker refers to O'Brien as a lieutenant (and he is wearing lieutenant collar pips).
He still wears lieutenant pips in a subsequent episode, but in later episodes, the collar symbol has changed, and O'Brien is referred to simply as Chief.
(See "Rank" below).
In 2367, O'Brien confronts his former commanding officer Capt.
Benjamin Maxwell on the USS Rutledge when Maxwell attacks  Cardassian ships and outposts without authorisation which threatens the peace between the Federation and the Cardassian Union.
During the Klingon Civil War, O'Brien is assigned to the bridge as tactical officer due to Worf's resignation from Starfleet and the temporary reassignment of officers to other ships in a fleet led by Capt.
Picard.
O'Brien marries Keiko Ishikawa aboard the USS Enterprise-D.
They have a daughter, Molly, who is delivered by Worf.
Shortly after Molly's birth, O'Brien is one of three Starfleet personnel who are possessed by evil spirits; they hold Keiko and Molly hostage.
O'Brien appears in over 50 episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation.


Depiction in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine

The character of Miles O'Brien was transplanted from Star Trek: The Next Generation to Star Trek: Deep Space Nine at the beginning of the latter show.
In the Deep Space Nine premiere episode, Miles O'Brien transfers from the Enterprise-D to Deep Space Nine to serve as the station's chief of operations.
He would later assume an additional role as chief engineer of the USS Defiant, which is assigned to Deep Space Nine.
O'Brien's character is unusual among Star Trek main characters.
As well as being a non-commissioned officer, he is also a family man with a wife and children.
He is often portrayed as being less patrician, and more pragmatic and down-to-earth than his colleagues.
The producers would routinely put O'Brien under intense psychological pressure.
O'Brien was regularly chosen for such storylines because it was felt people could empathise with him.
For example, he is falsely convicted of espionage and given the simulated memory of a 20-year prison sentence; in another episode, he repeatedly time-travels into the future, witnessing his own death and the destruction of Deep Space Nine.
While stationed at Deep Space Nine, O'Brien meets Dr.
Julian Bashir, who initially irritates him, but the two characters eventually become best friends.
In particular, they frequently play darts and fight historical battles in the holosuites.
In 2373, his son, Kirayoshi, is born, delivered by surrogate Kira Nerys.
 His wife Keiko helps rescue her husband.
Ironically Miles has to rescue his wife who has been possessed by a Pagh Wraith in a nearly successful attempt to destroy the Prophets; Miles instead directs the energy charge at Keiko which destroys the evil spirit and freed his wife.
After an undercover assignment infiltrating the Orion Syndicate, O'Brien adopts Chester, a cat previously owned by Bilby, a man who he grew close to during the mission.
At the end of Deep Space Nine, O'Brien and his family depart the station to move back to Earth, where he is to serve as an engineering professor at Starfleet Academy.
O'Brien is briefly mentioned in Star Trek: Lower Decks as the "most important person in Starfleet history" during a brief cutaway to the far future.


Mirror Universe
Miles O'Brien of the Mirror Universe was a Terran slave who worked for the Klingon-Cardassian Alliance aboard station Terok Nor.
In 2370, O'Brien was working in the station's ore processing center.
O'Brien was also occasionally recruited to repair Benjamin Sisko's raider when it was docked at the station.
Sisko claimed he hated the name Miles, and instead nicknamed O'Brien "Smiley".
Miles was known on the station for being an excellent "tinkerer and putterer".
When Smiley met a Julian Bashir from another universe in the ore processing center, he initially thought that Bashir's "wild" tales of his counterpart being Chief of Operations was simply a ruse to get him to help Bashir.
However, Bashir was able to persuade him to help after he realised that anything had to be better than being a slave.
Smiley agreed to help Bashir try to escape from the station only if he could go back with him to the other universe.
When Captain Sisko defied Intendant Kira Nerys who commanded the station, Smiley changed his mind and decided to join Sisko's crew, deciding that there was something worth staying for after all.
When Mirror Sisko was killed by the Alliance in early 2371, Smiley took charge of the Terran Rebellion.
To complete Sisko's last mission, he recruited Benjamin Sisko to take the place of his deceased counterpart long enough to convince Jennifer Sisko to leave the Alliance and start working for the Rebellion.
While he was aboard Deep Space 9, Smiley took the opportunity to download a large portion of the station's database, including the schematics for the USS Defiant.
Smiley used the stolen specifications to build a warship, which they named Defiant.
After the rebels managed to capture Terok Nor from the Alliance, the Alliance prepared to recapture the station.
Smiley once again recruited Sisko to help them finish construction of the Defiant in time.
After successfully defending the station, Smiley sent Sisko home.

In 2375, Smiley commands the Defiant when it pursues Brunt's ship as it steals a cloaking device from the station.
Smiley later negotiates Regent Worf's surrender and capture.


Rank
During the story progression of The Next Generation and Deep Space Nine, O'Brien's rank and insignia were inconsistent until it was firmly established for Deep Space Nine.
He first appears with one silver-rimmed black pip then full lieutenant insignia consisting of two gold pips and then one gold-rimmed black pip Sergey Rozhenko calls him a Chief Petty Officer in an episode (perhaps mistakenly), but in previous episodes O'Brien was indicated to be a lieutenant.
Eventually, O'Brien receives a distinct senior chief petty officer's insignia, and his rank is emphatically identified.


Actor commentary
In interviews, Colm Meaney has praised the writing of the character, and noted "there was a terrific kind of humanity in O'Brien".


Reception
In 2009, IGN rated O'Brien the 17th best character of all  Star Trek up to that time.
In 2012, TrekMovie.com recommended the episode "The Wounded" for Saint Patrick's Day, praising O'Brien's rendition of the Irish ballad "Minstrel Boy".
In 2016, O'Brien was ranked as the 17th most important character of Starfleet within the Star Trek science fiction universe by Wired magazine.
In 2017, IndieWire ranked O'Brien as the 13th best character on Star Trek: The Next Generation.
In 2018, Comic Book Resources ranked O'Brien the 15th best Starfleet character of Star Trek.

Screen Rant in 2016 rated O'Brien as the 20th best character in Star Trek overall as presented in television and film up to that time, highlighting the character's role in episodes such as  "Hard Time", "Tribunal", "The Wounded", and "Time’s Orphan".
In 2020, Screen Rant ranked O'Brien one of the top five most likeable characters on the Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.
In addition, they ranked him and Keiko as the 5th best romantic couple of all Star Trek.
In March 2020, O'Brien was praised as a positive depiction of Irish culture in media by Irish media company Entertainment.ie.
In particular they noted he had a Dublin accent and praised Meaney's overall presentation of Irishness.


Notes


References


External links
Miles O'Brien at Memory Alpha
Miles O'Brien (mirror) at Memory Alpha
Albert Macklin at Memory Alpha
Miles O'Brien at StarTrek.com

Missouri Route 95
Route 95 is a highway in southern Missouri.
 Its northern terminus is at Route 32 at Lynchburg in Laclede County.
Its southern terminus is at U.S.
Route 160 at Lutie about 2.5 miles west of the Theodosia arm of Bull Shoals Lake in Ozark County.
A short 3.3 miles (5.3 km) section forms a wrong-way concurrency with Route 5; Route 95 is marked as "North Route 95" but goes south at this location.


Route description


History
The section of Route 95 north of Wasola to Lutie was originally a section of Route 5A, a branch of Route 5.


Major intersections


References

Trinocular vision
Trinocular vision may refer to:

Animals with a rudimentary third eye:
The parietal eye present in some amphibians and reptiles.
The ocelli that occur in many arthropods.
A compound eye with three independent regions, such as that of the mantis shrimp.


See also
Third eye (disambiguation)
Binocular vision
Monocular vision
Trinocular perspective

Listed buildings in Morland, Cumbria
Morland is a civil parish in Westmorland and Furness, Cumbria, England.
It contains 13 listed buildings that are recorded in the National Heritage List for England.
Of these, one is listed at Grade I, the highest of the three grades, one is at Grade II*, the middle grade, and the others are at Grade II, the lowest grade.
 The parish contains the village of Morland and the surrounding countryside.
 Most of the listed buildings are in the village, and they consist of houses and associated structures, farmhouses and farm buildings, and a church and associated structures.
 Outside the village the listed buildings are a house, a barn, and a bridge.


Key
  


Buildings


Notes and references


Notes


Citations


Sources

Salvadoran Civil War
The Salvadoran Civil War (Spanish: guerra civil de El Salvador) was a twelve-year civil war in El Salvador that was fought between the government of El Salvador, backed by the United States, and the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN), a coalition of left-wing guerilla groups backed by Cuba under Fidel Castro as well as the Soviet Union.
A coup on 15 October 1979 followed by government killings of anti-coup protesters is widely seen as the start of civil war.
The war did not formally end until after the collapse of the Soviet Union, when, on 16 January 1992 the Chapultepec Peace Accords were signed in Mexico City.
The United Nations (UN) reports that the war killed more than 75,000 people between 1979 and 1992, along with approximately 8,000 disappeared persons.
Human rights violations, particularly the kidnapping, torture, and murder of suspected FMLN sympathizers by state security forces and paramilitary death squads – were pervasive.
The Salvadoran government was considered an ally of the U.S.
in the context of the Cold War.
During the Carter and Reagan administrations, the US provided economic aid to the Salvadoran government.
The US also provided significant training and equipment to the military.
By May 1983, it was reported that US military officers were working within the Salvadoran High Command and making important strategic and tactical decisions.
The United States government believed its extensive assistance to El Salvador's government was justified on the grounds that the insurgents were backed by the Soviet Union.
Counterinsurgency tactics implemented by the Salvadoran government often targeted civilians.
Overall, the United Nations estimated that FMLN guerrillas were responsible for 5 percent of atrocities committed during the civil war, while 85 percent were committed by the Salvadoran security forces.
Accountability for these civil war-era atrocities has been hindered by a 1993 amnesty law.
In 2016, however, the Supreme Court of Justice of El Salvador ruled in case Incostitucionalidad 44-2013/145-2013 that the law was unconstitutional and that the Salvadoran government could prosecute suspected war criminals.


Background
El Salvador has historically been characterised by extreme socioeconomic inequality.
In the late 19th century, coffee became a major cash crop for El Salvador.
The divide between rich and poor grew through the 1920s and was compounded by a drop in coffee prices following the stock-market crash of 1929.
In 1932, the Central American Socialist Party was formed and led an uprising of peasants and indigenous people against the government.
The FMLN was named after Farabundo Martí, one of the leaders of the uprising.
The rebellion was brutally suppressed in La Matanza, during which approximately 30,000 civilians were murdered by the armed forces.
La Matanza – 'the slaughter' in Spanish, as it came to be known – allowed military dictatorships to monopolize political power in El Salvador while protecting the economic dominance of the landed elite.
Opposition to this arrangement among middle-class, working-class, and poor Salvadorans grew throughout the 20th century.
On 14 July 1969, an armed conflict erupted between El Salvador and Honduras over immigration disputes caused by Honduran land reform laws.
The conflict (known as the Football War) lasted only four days but had major long-term effects for Salvadoran society.
Trade was disrupted between El Salvador and Honduras, causing tremendous economic damage to both nations.
An estimated 300,000 Salvadorans were displaced due to battle, many of whom were exiled from Honduras; in many cases, the Salvadoran government could not meet their needs.
The Football War also strengthened the power of the military in El Salvador, leading to heightened corruption.
In the years following the war, the government expanded its purchases of arms from sources such as Israel, Brazil, West Germany and the United States.
The 1972 Salvadoran presidential election was marred by massive electoral fraud, which favored the military-backed National Conciliation Party (PCN), whose candidate Arturo Armando Molina was a colonel in the Salvadoran Army.
Opposition to the Molina government was strong on both the right and the left.
Also in 1972, the Marxist–Leninist Fuerzas Populares de Liberación Farabundo Martí (FPL) – established in 1970 as an offshoot of the Communist Party of El Salvador – began conducting small-scale guerrilla operations in El Salvador.
Other organizations such as the People's Revolutionary Army (ERP) also began to develop.
The growth of left-wing insurgency in El Salvador occurred against a backdrop of rising food prices and decreased agricultural output exacerbated by the 1973 oil crisis.
This worsened the existing socioeconomic inequality in the country, leading to increased unrest.
In response, President Molina enacted a series of land reform measures, calling for large landholdings to be redistributed among the peasant population.
The reforms failed, thanks to opposition from the landed elite, reinforcing the widespread discontent with the government.

On 20 February 1977, the PCN defeated the National Opposition Union (UNO) in the presidential elections.
As was the case in 1972, the results of the 1977 election were fraudulent and favored a military candidate, General Carlos Humberto Romero.
State-sponsored paramilitary forces – such as the infamous Organización Democrática Nacionalista (ORDEN) – reportedly strong-armed peasants into voting for the military candidate by threatening them with machetes.
The period between the election and the formal inauguration of President Romero on 1 July 1977 was characterized by massive protests from the popular movement, which were met by state repression.
On 28 February 1977, a crowd of political demonstrators gathered in downtown San Salvador to protest the electoral fraud.
Security forces arrived on the scene and opened fire, resulting in a massacre as they indiscriminately killed demonstrators and bystanders alike.
Estimates of the number of civilians killed range between 200 and 1,500.
President Molina blamed the protests on "foreign Communists" and immediately exiled a number of top UNO party members from the country.
Repression continued after the inauguration of President Romero, with his new government declaring a state-of-siege and suspending civil liberties.
In the countryside, the agrarian elite organized and funded paramilitary death squads, such as the infamous Regalado's Armed Forces (FAR) led by Hector Regalado.
While the death squads were initially autonomous from the Salvadoran military and composed of civilians (the FAR, for example, had developed out of a Boy Scout troop), they were soon taken over by El Salvador's military intelligence service, National Security Agency of El Salvador (ANSESAL), led by Major Roberto D'Aubuisson, and became a crucial part of the state's repressive apparatus, murdering thousands of union leaders, activists, students and teachers suspected of sympathizing with the left.
The Socorro Jurídico Cristiano (Christian Legal Assistance) – a legal aid office within the archbishop's office and El Salvador's leading human rights group at the time – documented the killings of 687 civilians by government forces in 1978.
In 1979 the number of documented killings increased to 1,796.
The repression prompted many in the Catholic Church to denounce the government, which responded by repressing the clergy.
Historian M.
A.
Serpas posits displacement and dispossession rates with respect to land as a major structural factor leading ultimately to civil war.
El Salvador is an agrarian society, with coffee fueling its economy, where "77 percent of the arable land belonged to .01 percent of the population.
Nearly 35 percent of the civilians in El Salvador were disfranchised from land ownership either through historical injustices, war or economic downturns in the commodities market.
During this time frame, the country also experienced a growing population amidst major disruption in agrarian commerce and trade."

A threat to land change meant a challenge to a state where "marriages intertwined, making the wealthiest coffee processors and exporters (more so than the growers) also those with the highest ties in the military.


Coup d'état, repression and insurrection: 1979–1981


Military coup October 1979
With tensions mounting and the country on the verge of an insurrection, the civil-military Revolutionary Government Junta (JRG) deposed Romero in a coup on 15 October 1979.
The United States feared that El Salvador, like Nicaragua and Cuba before it, could fall to communist revolution.
Thus, Jimmy Carter's administration supported the new military government with vigor, hoping to promote stability in the country.
While Carter provided some support to the government, the subsequent Reagan administration significantly increased U.S.
spending in El Salvador.
By 1984, Ronald Reagan's government would spend nearly $1 billion on economic aid for the Salvadoran government.
The JRG enacted a land reform program that restricted landholdings to a 100-hectare maximum, nationalised the banking, coffee and sugar industries, scheduled elections for February 1982, and disbanded the paramilitary private death squad Organización Democrática Nacionalista (ORDEN) on 6 November 1979.
The land reform program was received with hostility from El Salvador's military and economic elites, however, which sought to sabotage the process as soon as it began.
Upon learning of the government's intent to distribute land to the peasants and organize cooperatives, wealthy Salvadoran landowners began killing their own livestock and moving valuable farming equipment across the border into Guatemala, where many Salvadoran elites owned additional land.
In addition, most co-op leaders in the countryside were assassinated or "disappeared" soon after being elected and becoming visible to the authorities.
The Socorro Jurídico documented a jump in documented government killings from 234 in February 1980 to 487 the following month.
Under pressure from the military, all three civilian members of the junta resigned on 3 January 1980, along with 10 of the 11 cabinet ministers.
On 22 January 1980, the Salvadoran National Guard attacked a massive peaceful demonstration, killing up to 50 people and wounding hundreds more.
On 6 February, US ambassador Frank Devine informed the State Department that the extreme right was arming itself and preparing for a confrontation in which it clearly expected to ally itself with the military.


Criticism of US support
"The immediate goal of the Salvadoran army and security forces—and of the United States in 1980, was to prevent a takeover by the leftist-led guerrillas and their allied political organizations.
At this point in the Salvadoran conflict the latter were much more important than the former.
The military resources of the rebels were extremely limited and their greatest strength, by far, lay not in force of arms but in their 'mass organizations' made up of labor unions, student and peasant organizations that could be mobilized by the thousands in El Salvador's major cities and could shut down the country through strikes."
Critics of US military aid charged that "it would Ilegitimize what has become dictorial violence and that political power in El Salvador lay with old-line military leaders in government positions who practice a policy of 'reform with repression.'" A prominent Catholic spokesman insisted that "any military aid you send to El Salvador ends up in the hands of the military and paramilitary rightist groups who are themselves at the root of the problems of the country."
"In one case that has received little attention", Human Rights Watch noted, "US Embassy officials apparently collaborated with the death squad abduction of two law students in January 1980.
National Guard troops arrested two youths, Francisco Ventura and José Humberto Mejía, following an anti-government demonstration.
The National Guard received permission to bring the youths onto Embassy grounds.
Shortly thereafter, a private car drove into the Embassy parking lot.
Men in civilian clothes put the students in the trunk of their car and drove away.
Ventura and Mejía were never seen again."


Motivation for the resistance

As the government began to expand its violence towards its citizens, not only through death squads but also through the military, any group of citizens that attempted to provide any form of support whether physically or verbally ran the risk of death.
Even so, many still chose to participate.
But the violence was not limited to activists but also anyone who promoted ideas that "questioned official policy" were tacitly assumed to be subversive against the government.
A marginalized group that metamorphosed into a guerilla force that would end up confronting these government forces manifested itself in campesinos or peasants.
Many of these insurgents joined collective action campaigns for material gain; in the Salvadoran Civil War, however, many peasants cited reasons other than material benefits in their decision to join the fight.
Piety was a popular reason for joining the insurrection because they saw their participation as a way of not only advancing a personal cause but a communal sentiment of divine justice.
Even prior to the civil war, numerous insurgents took part in other campaigns that tackled social changes much more directly, not only the lack of political representation but also the lack of economic and social opportunities not afforded to their communities.
While the FMLN can be characterized as an insurrectionist group, other scholars have classified it as an "armed group institution." Understanding the differentiation is crucial.
Armed group institutions use tactics to reinforce their mission or ideology, ultimately influencing the behavior and group norms of their combatants.
In this regard, the FMLN had a more effective approach than El Salvador's army in politically educating their members about their mission.
Individuals who aligned themselves with the FMLN were driven by a profound sense of passion and purpose.
They demonstrated a willingness to risk their lives for the greater good of their nation.
The FMLN strategy focused on community organization,  establishing connections within the church and labor unions.
In contrast, El Salvador's army had inadequate training, and many of its combatants reported joining out of job insecurity or under intimidation from the government.These disparities were notably reflected in their respective combat methods.
Further, the Salvadoran military caused more civilian casualties than the FMLN.
In addition, the insurgents in the civil war viewed their support of the insurrection as a demonstration of their opposition to the powerful elite's unfair treatment of peasant communities that they experienced on an everyday basis, so there was a class element associated with these insurgencies.
They reveled in their fight against injustice and in their belief that they were writing their own story, an emotion that Elisabeth Wood titled "pleasure of agency".
The peasants' organization thus centered on using their struggle to unite against their oppressors, not only towards the government but the elites as well, a struggle that soon evolved into a political machine that came to be associated with the FMLN.
In the early months of 1980, Salvadoran guerilla groups, workers, communists, and socialists, unified to form the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN).
The FMLN immediately announced plans for an insurrection against the government, which began on 10 January 1981, with the FMLN's first major attack.
The attack established FMLN control of most of Morazán and Chalatenango departments for the war's duration.
Attacks were also launched on military targets throughout the country, leaving hundreds of people dead.
FMLN insurgents ranged from children to the elderly, both male and female, and most were trained in FMLN camps in the mountains and jungles of El Salvador to learn military techniques.
Much later, in November 1989, the FMLN launched a large offensive that caught Salvadoran military off guard and succeeded in taking control of large sections of the country and entering the capital, San Salvador.
In San Salvador, the FMLN quickly took control of many of the poor neighborhoods as the military bombed their positions—including residential neighborhoods to drive out the FMLN.
This large FMLN offensive was unsuccessful in overthrowing the government but did convince the government that the FMLN could not be defeated using force of arms and that a negotiated settlement would be necessary.


Assassination of Archbishop Romero

In February 1980, Archbishop Óscar Romero published an open letter to US President Jimmy Carter in which he pleaded with him to suspend the United States' ongoing program of military aid to the Salvadoran regime.
He advised Carter that "Political power is in the hands of the armed forces.
They know only how to repress the people and defend the interests of the Salvadoran oligarchy." Romero warned that US support would only "sharpen the injustice and repression against the organizations of the people which repeatedly have been struggling to gain respect for their fundamental human rights".
On 24 March 1980, the Archbishop was assassinated while celebrating Mass, the day after he called upon Salvadoran soldiers and security force members to not follow their orders to kill Salvadoran civilians.
President Carter stated this was a "shocking and unconscionable act".
At his funeral a week later, government-sponsored snipers in the National Palace and on the periphery of the Gerardo Barrios Plaza were responsible for the shooting of 42 mourners.
On 7 May 1980, former army major, Roberto D'Aubuisson, was arrested with a group of civilians and soldiers at a farm.
The raiders found documents connecting him and the civilians as organizers and financiers of the death squad who killed Archbishop Romero, and of plotting a coup d'état against the JRG.
Their arrest provoked right-wing terrorist threats and institutional pressures forcing the JRG to release D'Aubuisson.
In 1993, a U.N.
investigation confirmed that D'Aubuisson ordered the assassination.
A week after the arrest of D'Aubuisson, the National Guard and the newly reorganized paramilitary ORDEN, with the cooperation of the Military of Honduras, carried out a large massacre at the Sumpul River on 14 May 1980, in which an estimated 600 civilians were killed, mostly women and children.
Escaping villagers were prevented from crossing the river by the Honduran armed forces, "and then killed by Salvadoran troops who fired on them in cold blood".
Over the course of 1980, the Salvadoran Army and three main security forces (National Guard, National Police and Treasury Police) were estimated to have killed 11,895 people, mostly peasants, trade unionists, teachers, students, journalists, human rights advocates, priests, and other prominent demographics among the popular movement.
Human rights organizations judged the Salvadoran government to have among the worst human rights records in the hemisphere.


Murder and rape of US nuns
On 2 December 1980, members of the Salvadoran National Guard were suspected to have raped and murdered four American, Catholic church women (three religious women, or nuns, and a laywoman).
Maryknoll missionary sisters Maura Clarke and Ita Ford, Ursuline sister Dorothy Kazel, and laywoman Jean Donovan were on a Catholic relief mission providing food, shelter, transport, medical care, and burial to death squad victims.
In 1980 alone, at least 20 religious workers and priests were murdered in El Salvador.
Throughout the war, the murders of church figures increased.
For example, the Jesuit University of Central America stated that two bishops, sixteen priests, three nuns, one seminarian, and at least twenty-seven lay workers were murdered.
By killing Church figures, "the military leadership showed just how far its position had hardened in daring to eliminate those it viewed as opponents.
They saw the Church as an enemy that went against the military and their rule." U.S.
military aid was briefly cut off in response to the murders but was renewed within six weeks.
The outgoing Carter administration increased military aid to the Salvadoran armed forces to $10 million, which included $5 million in rifles, ammunition, grenades and helicopters.
In justifying these arms shipments, the administration claimed that the regime had taken "positive steps" to investigate the murder of four American nuns, but this was disputed by US Ambassador, Robert E.
White, who said that he could find no evidence the junta was "conducting a serious investigation".
White was dismissed from the foreign service by the Reagan administration after he had refused to participate in a coverup of the Salvadoran military's responsibility for the murders at the behest of Secretary of State Alexander Haig.


Repression stepped up
Other countries allied with the United States also intervened in El Salvador.
The military government in Chile provided substantial training and tactical advice to the Salvadoran Armed Forces, such that the Salvadoran high command bestowed upon General Augusto Pinochet the prestigious Order of José Matías Delgado in May 1981 for his government's avid support.
The Argentine military dictatorship also supported the Salvadoran armed forces as part of Operation Charly.
During the same month, the JRG strengthened the state of siege, imposed by President Romero in May 1979, by declaring martial law and adopting a new set of curfew regulations.
Between 12 January and 19 February 1981, 168 persons were killed by the security forces for violating curfew.


"Draining the Sea"

In its effort to defeat the insurgency, the Salvadoran Armed Forces carried out a "scorched earth" strategy, and adopted tactics similar to those being employed in neighboring Guatemala by its security forces.
These tactics were inspired and adapted from U.S.
counterinsurgency strategies used during the Vietnam War.
 An integral part of the Salvadoran Army's counterinsurgency strategy entailed "draining the sea" or "drying up the ocean", that is, eliminating the insurgency by eradicating its support base in the countryside.
The primary target was the civilian population – displacing or killing them in order to remove any possible base of support for the rebels.
The concept of "draining the sea" had its basis in a doctrine by Mao Zedong that emphasized that "The guerrilla must move amongst the people as a fish swims in the sea."
Aryeh Neier, the executive director of Americas Watch, wrote in a 1984 review about the scorched earth approach: "This may be an effective strategy for winning the war.
It is, however, a strategy that involves the use of terror tactics—bombings, strafings, shellings and, occasionally, massacres of civilians."
Beginning in 1984, the Salvadoran Air Force was able to locate guerrilla strongholds reportedly using intelligence from U.S.
Air Force planes flying over the country.


Scorched earth offensives of 1981
On 15 March 1981, the Salvadoran Army began a "sweep" operation in Cabañas Department in northern El Salvador near the Honduran border.
The sweep was accompanied by the use of scorched earth tactics by the Salvadoran Army and indiscriminate killings of anyone captured by the army.
Those displaced by the "sweep" who were not killed outright fled the advance of the Salvadoran Army; hiding in caves and under trees to evade capture and probable summary execution.
On 18 March, three days after the sweep in Cabañas began, 4–8,000 survivors of the sweep (mostly women and children) attempted to cross the Rio Lempa into Honduras to flee violence.
There, they were caught between Salvadoran and Honduran troops.
The Salvadoran Air Force, subsequently bombed and strafed the fleeing civilians with machine gun fire, killing hundreds.
Among the dead were at least 189 persons who were unaccounted for and registered as "disappeared" during the operation.
A second offensive was launched, also in Cabañas Department, on 11 November 1981 in which 1,200 troops were mobilized, including members of the Atlácatl Battalion.
Atlácatl was a rapid response counter-insurgency battalion organized at the U.S.
Army School of the Americas in Panama in 1980.
Atlácatl soldiers were trained and equipped by the U.S.
military, and were described as "the pride of the United States military team in San Salvador.
Trained in antiguerrilla operations, the battalion was intended to turn a losing war around."
The November 1981 operation was commanded by Lt.
Col.
Sigifredo Ochoa, a former Treasury Police chief with a reputation for brutality.
Ochoa was close associate of Major Roberto D'Aubuisson and was alleged to have been involved in the assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero.
D'Aubuisson and Ochoa were both members of La Tandona, the class of 1966 at the Captain General Gerardo Barrios Military School.
From the start, the invasion of Cabanas was described as a "cleansing" operation by official sources.
Hundreds of civilians were massacred by the army as Col.
Ochoa's troops moved through the villages.
Col.
Ochoa claimed that hundreds of guerrillas had been killed but was able to show journalists only fifteen captured weapons, half of them virtual antiques, suggesting that most of those killed in the sweep were unarmed.


El Mozote massacre

This operation was followed by additional "sweeps" through Morazán Department, spearheaded by the Atlácatl Battalion.
On 11 December 1981, one month after the "sweep" through Cabañas, the Battalion occupied the village of El Mozote and massacred at least 733 and possibly up to 1,000 unarmed civilians, including women and 146 children, in what became known as the El Mozote massacre.
The Atlácatl soldiers accused the adults of collaborating with the guerrillas.
The field commander said they were under orders to kill everyone, including the children, who he asserted would just grow up to become guerrillas if they let them live.
"We were going to make an example of these people," he said.
The US steadfastly denied the existence of the El Mozote massacre, dismissing reports of it as leftist "propaganda", until secret US cables were declassified in the 1990s.
The US government and its allies in US media smeared reporters of American newspapers who reported on the atrocity and, more generally, undertook a campaign of whitewashing the human rights record of the Salvadoran military and the US role in arming, training and guiding it.
The smears, according to journalists like Michael Massing writing in the Columbia Journalism Review and Anthony Lewis, made other American journalists tone down their reporting on the crimes of the Salvadoran regime and the US role in supporting the regime.
As details became more widely known, the event became recognized as one of the worst atrocities of the conflict.
In its report covering 1981, Amnesty International identified "regular security and military units as responsible for widespread torture, mutilation and killings of noncombatant civilians from all sectors of Salvadoran society." The report also stated that the killing of civilians by state security forces became increasingly systematic with the implementation of more methodical killing strategies, which allegedly included use of a meat packing plant to dispose of human remains.
Between 20 and 25 August 1981, eighty-three decapitations were reported.
The murders were later revealed to have been carried out by a death squad using a guillotine.
The repression in rural areas resulted in the displacement of large portions of the rural populace, and many peasants fled.
Of those who fled or were displaced, some 20,000 resided in makeshift refugee centers on the Honduran border in conditions of poverty, starvation and disease.
The army and death squads forced many of them to flee to the United States, but most were denied asylum.
A US congressional delegation that, on 17–18 January 1981, visited the refugee camps in El Salvador on a fact finding mission, submitted a report to Congress that found: "[T]he Salvadoran method of 'drying up the ocean' is to eliminate entire villages from the map, to isolate the guerrillas, and deny them any rural base off which they can feed."
In total, Socorro Jurídico registered 13,353 individual cases of summary execution by government forces over the course of 1981.
Nonetheless, the true figure for the number of persons killed by the Army and security services could be substantially higher, due to the fact that extrajudicial killings generally went unreported in the countryside and many of the victims' families remained silent in fear of reprisal.
An Americas Watch report described that the Socorro Jurídico figures "tended to be conservative because its standards of confirmation are strict"; killings of persons were registered individually and required proof of being "not combat related".
Socorro Jurídico later revised its count of government killings for 1981 up to 16,000 with the induction of new cases.
Lieutenant Colonel Domingo Monterrosa was chosen to replace Colonial Jaime Flores and became military commander of the whole eastern zone of El Salvador.
He was a rare thing: "pure, one-hundred-percent soldier, a natural leader, a born military man." Monterrosa did not want wholesale bloodshed, but he wanted to win the war at any costs.
He tried to be more relatable and less arrogant to the local population in the way he presented his military.
When he first executed massacres he didn't think much of it because it was part of his military training and because it was tactically approved by the High Command, but he didn't consider whether it would become a political problem.
He was accused of responsibility for what happened at El Mozote, though he denied it.
Monterrosa later began to date a Salvadoran woman who worked in the press corps, for an American television network.
Monterrosa's girlfriend let her co-worker know that something had gone wrong at El Mozote, though she did not go into detail.
But people knew that he had lost radio contact with his men and that it was unfortunate and something that later brought regrettable consequences.
Although he says he lost contact with his men, the guerrillas did not believe it and said it was well known to everyone that he had ordered the massacre.
In an interview with James LeMoyne, however, he stated that he did in fact order his men to "clean out" El Mozote.


Interim government and continued violence: 1982–1984


Peace offer and rejection

In 1982, the FMLN began calling for a peace settlement that would establish a "government of broad participation".
The Reagan administration said the FMLN wanted to create a Communist dictatorship.
Elections were interrupted with right-wing paramilitary attacks and FMLN-suggested boycotts.
El Salvador's National Federation of Lawyers, which represented all of the country's bar associations, refused to participate in drafting the 1982 electoral law.
The lawyers said that the elections couldn't possibly be free and fair during a state of siege that suspended all basic rights and freedoms.


FMLN steps up campaign
Attacks against military and economic targets by the FMLN began to escalate.
The FMLN attacked the Ilopango Air Force Base in San Salvador, destroying six of the Air Force's 14 Bell UH-1 Iroquois helicopters, five of its 18 Dassault Ouragan aircraft and three C-47s.
Between February and April, a total of 439 acts of sabotage were reported.
The number of acts of sabotage involving explosives or arson rose to 782 between January and September.
The United States Embassy estimated the damage to the economic infrastructure at US$98 million.
FMLN also carried out large-scale operations in the capital city and temporarily occupied urban centres in the country's interior.
According to some reports, the number of rebels ranged between 4,000 and 5,000; other sources put the number at between 6,000 and 9,000.


Interim government
Pursuant to measures implemented by the JRG junta on 18 October 1979, elections for an interim government were held on 29 April 1982.
The Legislative Assembly voted on three candidates nominated by the armed forces; Álvaro Alfredo Magaña Borja was elected by 36 votes to 17, ahead of the Party of National Conciliation and the hard right Nationalist Republican Alliance (ARENA) candidates.
Roberto D'Aubuisson accused Jaime Abdul Gutiérrez Avendaño of imposing on the Assembly "his personal decision to put Álvaro Alfredo Magaña Borja in the presidency" in spite of a "categorical no" from the ARENA deputies.
Magana was sworn into office on 2 May.
Decree No.
6 of the National Assembly suspended phase III of the implementation of the agrarian reform, and was itself later amended.
The Apaneca Pact was signed on 3 August 1982, establishing a Government of National Unity, whose objectives were peace, democratization, human rights, economic recovery, security and a strengthened international position.
An attempt was made to form a transitional government that would establish a democratic system.
Lack of agreement among the forces that made up the government and the pressures of the armed conflict prevented any substantive changes from being made during Magaña's presidency.


More atrocities by the government
   The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights reported that, on 24 May 1982, a clandestine cemetery containing the corpses of 150 disappeared persons was discovered near Puerta del Diablo, Panchimalco, approximately twelve kilometers from San Salvador.
On 10 June 1982, almost 4,000 Salvadoran troops carried out a "cleanup" operation in the rebel-controlled Chalatenango province.
Over 600 civilians were reportedly massacred during the Army sweep.
The Salvadoran field commander acknowledged that an unknown number of civilian rebel sympathizers or "masas" were killed, while declaring the operation a success.
Nineteen days later, the Army massacred 27 unarmed civilians during house raids in a San Salvador neighborhood.
The women were raped and murdered.
Everyone was dragged from their homes into the street and then executed.
"The operation was a success," said the Salvadoran Defense Ministry communique.
"This action was a result of training and professionalization of our officers and soldiers."
During 1982 and 1983, government forces killed approximately 8,000 civilians a year.
Although the figure is substantially less than the figures reported by human rights groups in 1980 and 1981, targeted executions as well as indiscriminate killings nonetheless remained an integral policy of the army and internal security forces, part of what Professor William Stanley described as a "strategy of mass murder" designed to terrorize the civilian population as well as opponents of the government.
General Adolfo Blandón, the Salvadoran armed forces chief of staff during much of the 1980s, has stated, "Before 1983, we never took prisoners of war."


Government murder of human rights and labor union leaders
In March 1983, Marianella García Villas, president of the non-governmental Human Rights Commission of El Salvador, was captured by army troops on the Guazapa volcano, and later tortured to death.
Garcia Villas had been on Guazapa collecting evidence about the possible army use of white phosphorus munitions.


Duarte presidency: 1984–1989


Fixed elections and lack of accountability

In 1984 elections, Christian Democrat José Napoleón Duarte won the presidency (with 54 percent of the votes) against Army Major Roberto d'Aubuisson of the Nationalist Republican Alliance (ARENA).
The elections were held under military rule amidst high levels of repression and violence, however, and candidates to the left of Duarte's brand of Christian Democrats were excluded from participating.
Fearful of a d'Aubuisson presidency for public relations purposes, the CIA financed Duarte's campaign with some two million dollars.
$10 million were put into the election as a whole, by the CIA, for electoral technology, administration and international observers.
After Duarte's victory, human rights abuses at the hands of the army and security forces continued, but declined due to modifications made to the security structures.
The policies of the Duarte government attempted to make the country's three security forces more accountable to the government by placing them under the direct supervision of a Vice Minister of Defense, but all three forces continued to be commanded individually by regular army officers, which, given the command structure within the government, served to effectively nullify any of the accountability provisions.
The Duarte government also failed to decommission personnel within the security structures that had been involved in gross human rights abuses, instead simply dispersing them to posts in other regions of the country.


Days of Tranquillity

Following a proposal from Nils Thedin to UNICEF, "Days of tranquillity" were brokered between Government and rebel forces, under the direction of UNICEF Executive Director James Grant.
For three days in 1985, all hostilities ceased to allow for mass-immunisation of any child against polio, measles, diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough.
The program was successful.
More than half of El Salvador's 400,000 children were immunised from 2,000 immunisation centres by 20,000 health workers, and the program was repeated in subsequent years until the conclusion of the war.
Similar programs have since been instituted in Uganda, Lebanon, Afghanistan, and Sudan.


Army massacres continue
While reforms were being made to the security forces, the army continued to massacre unarmed civilians in the country side.
An Americas Watch report noted that the Atlácatl Battalion killed 80 unarmed civilians in Cabanas in July 1984, and carried out another massacre one month later, killing 50 displaced people in the Chalatenango province.
The women were raped and then everyone was systematically executed.

Through 1984 and 1985, the Salvadoran Armed Forces enacted a series of "civic-action" programs in Chalatenango province, consisting of the establishment of "citizen defense committees" to guard plantations and businesses against attacks by insurgents and the establishment of a number of free-fire zones.
These measures were implemented under former Cabanas commander, Lieutenant Colonel Sigifredo Ochoa Perez, who had previously been exiled to the US Army War College for mutiny.
By January 1985 Ochoa's forces had established 12 free-fire zones in Chalatenango in which any inhabitants unidentified by the army were deemed to be insurgents.
Ochoa stated in an interview that areas within the free fire zone were susceptible to indiscriminate bombings by the Salvadoran Air Force.
Ochoa's forces were implicated in a massacre of about 40 civilians in an Army sweep through one of the free fire zones in August 1985.
Ochoa refused to permit the Red Cross to enter these areas to deliver humanitarian aid to the victims.
Ochoa's forces reportedly uprooted some 1,400 civilian rebel supporters with mortar fire between September and November 1984.
In its annual review of 1987, Amnesty International reported that "some of the most serious violations of human rights are found in Central America", particularly Guatemala and El Salvador, where "kidnappings and assassinations serve as systematic mechanisms of the government against opposition from the left".
On 26 October 1987, unknown gunmen shot and killed Herbert Ernesto Anaya, Director of El Salvador's nongovernmental Human Rights Commission.
Anaya was in his car in his driveway with his wife and children at the time.
Some human rights groups linked the increase of death squad-style killings and disappearances to the reactivation of the popular organizations, which had been decimated by mass state terror in the early 1980s.
Col.
Renee Emilio Ponce, the Army operations chief, asserted that the guerrillas were "returning to their first phase of clandestine organization" in the city, "and mobilization of the masses".


Peace talks
During the Central American Peace Accords negotiations in 1987, the FMLN demanded that all death squads be disbanded and the members be held accountable.
In October 1987, the Salvadoran Assembly approved an amnesty for civil-war-related crimes.
The Amnesty law required the release of all prisoners suspected of being guerrillas and guerrilla sympathizers.
Pursuant to these laws, 400 political prisoners were released.
Insurgents were given a period of fifteen days to turn themselves over to the security forces in exchange for amnesty.
Despite amnesty being granted to guerillas and political prisoners, amnesty was also granted to members of the army, security forces and paramilitary who were involved in human rights abuses.


Army death squads continue
In October 1988, Amnesty International reported that death squads had abducted, tortured, and killed, hundreds of suspected dissidents in the preceding eighteen months.
Most of the victims were trade unionists and members of cooperatives, human rights workers, members of the judiciary involved in efforts to establish criminal responsibility for human rights violations, returned refugees and displaced persons, and released political prisoners.
The squads comprised intelligence sections of the Armed Forces and the security services.
They customarily wore plain clothes and made use of trucks or vans with tinted windows and without license plates.
They were "chillingly efficient", said the report.
Victims were sometimes shot from passing cars, in the daytime and in front of eyewitnesses.
At other times, victims were kidnapped from their homes or on the streets and their bodies found dumped far from the scene.
Others were forcefully "disappeared." Victims were "customarily found mutilated, decapitated, dismembered, strangled or showing marks of torture or rape." The death squad style was "to operate in secret but to leave mutilated bodies of victims as a means of terrifying the population."


FMLN offensive of 1989 and retaliation

Outraged by the results of the 1988 fixed elections and the military's use of terror tactics and voter intimidation, the FMLN launched a major offensive known as the "final offensive of 1989" with the aim of unseating the government of President Alfredo Cristiani on 11 November 1989.
This offensive brought the epicenter of fighting into the wealthy suburbs of San Salvador for essentially the first time in the history of the conflict, as the FMLN began a campaign of selective assassinations against political and military officials, civil officials, and upper-class private citizens.
The government retaliated with a renewed campaign of repression, primarily against activists in the democratic sector.
The non-governmental Salvadoran Human Rights Commission (CDHES) counted 2,868 killings by the armed forces between May 1989 and May 1990.
In addition, the CDHES stated that government paramilitary organizations illegally detained 1,916 persons and disappeared 250 during the same period.
On 13 February, the Atlácatl Battalion attacked a guerrilla field hospital and killed at least 10 people, including five patients, a physician and a nurse.
Two of the female victims showed signs that they had been raped before they were executed.


US message
Nearly two weeks earlier, US Vice President Dan Quayle on a visit to San Salvador told army leaders that human rights abuses committed by the military had to stop.
Sources associated with the military said afterword that Quayle's warning was dismissed as propaganda for American consumption aimed at the US Congress and public.
At the same time, critics argued US military advisors were possibly sending a different message to the Salvadoran military: "Do what you need to do to stop the commies, just don't get caught".
A former US intelligence officer suggested the death squads needed to leave less visual evidence, that they should stop dumping bodies on the side of the road because "they have an ocean and they ought to use it".
The School of the Americas, founded by the United States, trained many members of the Salvadoran military, including Roberto D'Aubuisson, organizer of death squads, and military officers linked to the murder of Jesuit priests.
In a 29 November 1989 press conference, Secretary of State James A.
Baker III said he believed President Cristiani was in control of the army and defended the government's crackdown on opponents as "absolutely appropriate".
The US Trade Representative told Human Rights Watch that the government's repression of trade unionists was justified on the grounds that they were guerrilla supporters.


Government terrorism in San Salvador
On 1 October 1989, eight people were killed and 35 others were injured in San Salvador when a death squad bombed the headquarters of the National Trade Union Federation of Salvadoran Workers (UNTS).
Earlier the same day, another bomb exploded outside the headquarters of a victims' advocacy group, the Committee of Mothers and Family Members of Political Prisoners, Disappeared and Assassinated of El Salvador, injuring four others.


Army units attack the Catholic Church
As early as the 1980s, the University of Central America fell under attack from the army and death squads.
On 16 November 1989, five days after the beginning of the FMLN offensive, uniformed soldiers of the Atlácatl Battalion entered the campus of the University of Central America in the middle of the night and executed six Jesuit priests—Ignacio Ellacuría, Segundo Montes, Ignacio Martín-Baró, Joaquín López y López, Juan Ramón Moreno, and Amando López—and their housekeepers (a mother and daughter, Elba Ramos and Celia Marisela Ramos).
The priests were dragged from their beds on the campus, machine gunned to death and their corpses mutilated.
The mother and daughter were found shot to death in the bed they shared.
The Atlácatl Battalion was reportedly under the tutelage of U.S.
special forces just 48 hours before the killings.
One day later, six men and one youth were slaughtered by government soldiers in the capital, San Salvador.
According to relatives and neighbors who witnessed the killings, the six men were lined up against a masonry wall and shot to death.
The seventh youth who happened to be walking by at the time was also executed.
The Salvadoran government then began a campaign to dismantle a liberal Catholic Church network that the army said were "front organizations" supporting the guerrillas.
Church offices were raided and workers were arrested and expelled.
Targets included priests, lay workers and foreign employees of humanitarian agencies, providing social services to the poor: food programs, healthcare, relief for the displaced.
One Church volunteer, who was a U.S.
citizen, said she was blindfolded, tortured and interrogated in Treasury Police headquarters in San Salvador while a U.S.
vice consul "having coffee with the colonel in charge" did nothing to intervene.


Pressures to end stalemate
The murder of the six Jesuit priests and the November 1989 "final offensive" by the FMLN in San Salvador, however, were key turning points that increased international pressure and domestic pressure from war-weary constituents that alternatives to the military stalemate needed to be found.
 International support for the FMLN was declining with the end of the Cold War just as international support for the Salvadoran armed forces was weakening as the Reagan administration gave way to the less ideological Bush administration, and the end of the Cold War lessened the anti-Communist concerns about a potential domino effect in Central America.
By the late 1980s, 75 percent of the population lived in poverty.
The living standards of most Salvadorans declined by 30 percent since 1983.
Unemployment or underemployment increased to 50 percent.
Most people, moreover, still didn't have access to clean water or healthcare.
The armed forces were feared, inflation rose almost 40 percent, capital flight reached an estimated $1 billion, and the economic elite avoided paying taxes.
Despite nearly $3 billion in American economic assistance, per capita income declined by one third.
American aid was distributed to urban businesses although the impoverished majority received almost none of it.
The concentration of wealth was even higher than before the U.S.-administered land reform program.
The agrarian law generated windfall profits for the economic elite and buried the cooperatives in debts that left them incapable of competing in the capital markets.
The oligarchs often took back the land from bankrupt peasants who couldn't obtain the credit necessary to pay for seeds and fertilizer.
Although, "few of the poor would dream of seeking legal redress against a landlord because virtually no judge would favor a poor man." By 1989, 1 percent of the landowners owned 41 percent of the tillable land, while 60 percent of the rural population owned 0 percent.


Death squads and peace accords: 1990–1992

After 10 years of war, more than one million people had been displaced out of a population of 5,389,000.
40 percent of the homes of newly displaced people were completely destroyed and another 25 percent were in need of major repairs.
Death squad activities further escalated in 1990, despite a UN Agreement on Human Rights signed 26 July by the Cristiani government and the FMLN.
In June 1990, U.S.
President George Bush announced an "Enterprise for the Americas Initiative" to improve the investment climate by creating "a hemisphere-wide free trade zone."
President Bush authorized the release of $42.5 million in military aid to the Salvadoran armed forces on 16 January 1991.
In late January, the Usulután offices of the Democratic Convergence, a coalition of left-of-center parties, were attacked with grenades.
On 21 February, a candidate for the Democratic National Unity (UDN) party and his pregnant wife were assassinated after ignoring death squad threats to leave the country or die.
On the last day of the campaign, another UDN candidate was shot in her eye when Arena party gunmen opened fire on campaign activists putting up posters.
Despite fraudulent elections orchestrated by Arena through voter intimidation, sabotage of polling stations by the Arena-dominated Central Elections Council and the disappearing of tens of thousands of names from the voting lists, the official U.S.
observation team declared them "free and fair."
Death squad killings and disappearances remained steady throughout 1991 as well as torture, false imprisonment, and attacks on civilians by the Army and security forces.
Opposition politicians, members of church and grassroots organizations representing peasants, women and repatriated refugees suffered constant death threats, arrests, surveillance and break-ins all year.
The war intensified in mid-1991, as both the army and the FMLN attempted to gain the advantage in the United Nations-brokered peace talks prior to a cease-fire.
Indiscriminate attacks and executions by the armed forces increased as a result.
Eventually, by April 1991, negotiations resumed, resulting in a truce that successfully concluded in January 1992, bringing about the war's end.
On 16 January 1992, the Chapultepec Peace Accords were signed in Chapultepec Castle, Mexico City, to bring peace to El Salvador.
The Armed Forces were regulated, a civilian police force was established, the FMLN metamorphosed from a guerrilla army to a political party, and an amnesty law was legislated in 1993.


Aftermath

The peace process set up under the Chapultepec Accords was monitored by the United Nations from 1991 until June 1997 when it closed its special monitoring mission in El Salvador.
In 1996, U.S.
authorities acknowledged for the first time that U.S.
military personnel had died in combat during the civil war.
Officially, American advisers were prohibited from participating in combat operations, but they carried weapons, and accompanied Salvadoran army soldiers in the field and were subsequently targeted by rebels.
21 Americans were killed in action during the civil war and more than 5,000 served.


Truth Commission

At war's end, the Commission on the Truth for El Salvador registered more than 22,000 complaints of political violence in El Salvador, dating between January 1980 and July 1991, 60 percent about summary killing, 25 percent about kidnapping, and 20 percent about torture.
These complaints attributed almost 85 percent of the violence to the Salvadoran Army and security forces alone.
The Salvadoran Armed Forces, which were massively supported by the United States (4.6 billion dollars in 2009), were accused in 60 percent of the complaints, the security forces (i.e.
the National Guard, Treasury Police and the National Police) in 25 percent, military escorts and civil defense units in 20 percent of complaints, the death squads in approximately 10 percent, and the FMLN in 5 percent.
The Truth Commission could collect only a significant sample of the full number of potential complaints, having had only three months to collect it.
The report concluded that more than 70,000 people were killed, many in the course of gross violation of their human rights.
More than 25 per cent of the populace was displaced as refugees before the U.N.
peace treaty in 1992.
The statistics presented in the Truth Commission's report are consistent with both previous and retrospective assessments by the international community and human rights monitors, which documented that the majority of the violence and repression in El Salvador was attributable to government agencies, primarily the National Guard and the Salvadoran Army.
A 1984 Amnesty International report stated that many of the 40,000 people killed in the preceding five years had been murdered by government forces, who openly dumped their mutilated corpses in an apparent effort to terrorize the population.
The government mostly killed peasants, but many other opponents suspected of sympathy with the guerrillas—clergy (men and women), church lay workers, political activists, journalists, labor unionists (leaders, rank-and-file), medical workers, liberal students and teachers, and human-rights monitors were also killed.
The killings were carried out by the security forces, the Army, the National Guard, and the Treasury Police; but it was the paramilitary death squads that gave the Government plausible deniability of, and accountability for the killings.
Typically, a death squad dressed in civilian clothes and traveled in anonymous vehicles (dark windows, blank license plates).
The deaths squads tactics included publishing future-victim death lists, delivering coffins to said future victims, and sending the target-person an invitation to his/her own funeral.
Cynthia Arnson, a Latin American-affairs writer for Human Rights Watch, says: the objective of death-squad-terror seemed not only to eliminate opponents, but also, through torture and the gruesome disfigurement of bodies, to terrorize the population.
In the mid-1980s, state terror against civilians became open with indiscriminate bombing from military airplanes, planted mines, and the harassment of national and international medical personnel.
Author George Lopez writes that "although death rates attributable to the death squads have declined in El Salvador since 1983, non-combatant victims of the civil war have increased dramatically".
Though the violations of the FMLN accounted for five percent or less of those documented by the Truth Commission, the FMLN continuously violated the human rights of many Salvadorans and other individuals identified as right-wing supporters, military targets, pro-government politicians, intellectuals, public officials, and judges.
These violations included kidnapping, bombings, rape, and killing.


Military reform
In accordance with the peace agreements, the constitution was amended to prohibit the military from playing an internal security role except under extraordinary circumstances.
During the period of fulfilling of the peace agreements, the Minister of Defense was General Humberto Corado Figueroa.
Demobilization of Salvadoran military forces generally proceeded on schedule throughout the process.
The Treasury Police and National Guard were abolished, and military intelligence functions were transferred to civilian control.
By 1993—nine months ahead of schedule—the military had cut personnel from a wartime high of 63,000 to the level of 32,000 required by the peace accords.
By 1999, ESAF's strength stood at less than 15,000, including uniformed and non-uniformed personnel, consisting of personnel in the army, navy, and air force.
A purge of military officers accused of human rights abuses and corruption was completed in 1993 in compliance with the Ad Hoc Committee's recommendations.


National Civil Police
The new civilian police force, created to replace the discredited public security forces, deployed its first officers in March 1993, and was present throughout the country by the end of 1994.
In 1999, the PNC had over 18,000 officers.
The PNC faced many challenges in building a completely new police force.
With common crime rising dramatically since the end of the war, over 500 PNC officers had been killed in the line of duty by late 1998.
PNC officers also have arrested a number of their own in connection with various high-profile crimes, and a "purification" process to weed out unfit personnel from throughout the force was undertaken in late 2000.


Human Rights Commission of El Salvador
On 26 October 1987, Herbert Ernesto Anaya, head of the Human Rights Commission of El Salvador (CDHES), was assassinated.
His killing provoked four days' of political protest—during which his remains were displayed before the U.S.
embassy and then before the Salvadoran armed forces headquarters.
The National Union of Salvadoran Workers said: "Those who bear sole responsibility for this crime are José Napoleón Duarte, the U.S.
embassy...and the high command of the armed forces".
 In its report the Commission on the Truth for El Salvador, established as part of the El Salvador peace agreement, stated that it could not establish for sure whether the death squads, the Salvadoran Army or the FMLN was responsible for Anaya's death.
Moreover, the FMLN and the Revolutionary Democratic Front (FDR) also protested Mr.
Anaya's assassination by suspending negotiations with the Duarte government on 29 October 1987.
The same day, Reni Roldán resigned from the Commission of National Reconciliation, saying: "The murder of Anaya, the disappearance of university labor leader Salvador Ubau, and other events do not seem to be isolated incidents.
They are all part of an institutionalized pattern of conduct".
Mr.
Anaya's assassination evoked international indignation: the West German government, the West German Social Democratic Party, and the French government asked President Duarte to clarify the circumstances of the crime.
United Nations Secretary General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Americas Watch, Amnesty International, and other organizations protested against the assassination of the leader of the Human Rights Commission of El Salvador.


Post-war international litigation

 
Groups seeking investigation or retribution for actions during the war have sought the involvement of other foreign courts.
In 2008 the Spanish Association for Human Rights and a California organization called the Center for Justice and Accountability jointly filed a lawsuit in Spain against former President Cristiani and former defense minister Larios in the matter of the 1989 slaying of several Jesuit priests, their housekeeper, and her daughter.
The lawsuit accused Cristiani of a cover-up of the killings and Larios of participating in the meeting where the order to kill them was given; the groups asked the Spanish court to intervene on the principle of universal jurisdiction for crimes against humanity.
Long after the war, in a U.S.
federal court, in the case of Ford vs.
García the families of the murdered Maryknoll nuns sued the two Salvadoran generals believed responsible for the killings, but lost; the jury found Gen.
Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova, ex-National Guard Leader and Duarte's defense minister, and Gen.
José Guillermo García—defense minister from 1979 to 1984, not responsible for the killings; the families appealed and lost, and, in 2003, the U.S.
Supreme Court refused to hear their final appeal.
A second case, against the same generals, succeeded in the same Federal Court; the three plaintiffs in Romagoza vs.
García won a judgment exceeding US$54 million compensation for having been tortured by the military during El Salvador's Civil War.
The day after losing a court appeal in October 2009, the two generals were put into deportation proceedings by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), at the urging of U.S.
Senators Richard Durbin (Democrat) and Tom Coburn (Republican), according to the Center for Justice and Accountability (CJA).
Those deportation proceedings had been stalled by May 2010.
The Spanish Judge Velasco who issued indictments and arrest warrants for 20 former members of the Salvadoran military, charged with murder, Crimes Against Humanity and Terrorism requested that U.S.
agencies declassify documents related to the killings of the Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter but were denied access.
"The agencies in charge of making the information public have identified 3,000 other documents that remain secret and are not available; the reasoning given is that privacy is needed to protect sources and methods.
Many of the documents, from the CIA and the Defense Department, are not available..."
The Cold War with the Soviet Union and other communist nations at least partially explains the backdrop against which the U.S.
government aided various pro-government Salvadoran groups and opposed the FMLN.
The U.S.
State Department reported on intelligence that the FMLN was receiving clandestine guidance and arms from the Cuban, Nicaraguan, and Soviet governments.
While this White Paper on El Salvador later received criticism from some academics and journalists, it has also been largely substantiated based on the evidence available at the time.
The closure of the Cold War between 1989 and 1991 reduced the incentive for ongoing U.S.
involvement and invited broad international support for the negotiation process that would lead to the 1992 peace accords.
The political and economic divisions at play in El Salvador during the civil war were complex, which is often overlooked by scholars and analysts eager to vindicate one side or the other.
More research is needed, for example, to shed light on Salvadorans that resisted as political independents or as part of pro-democracy coalitions.
After a 2012 historians seminar at the University of El Salvador commemorating the 20th anniversary of the peace accords, Michael Allison concluded:
"Most postwar discourse has been driven by elites who participated in the conflict either on the part of the guerrillas or the government.
It's not that these individuals' perspectives are wrong; it is just healthier if they are challenged or supplemented by outside views."


See also


Notes


References


Further reading


Books
Americas Watch (1993).
El Salvador's Decade of Terror: Human Rights Since the Assassination of Archbishop Romero.
New Haven, London: Yale University Press.
ISBN 9780300049398.
Bonner, Raymond (1984).
Weakness and Deceit: U.S.
Policy and El Salvador.
New York: Times Books.
ISBN 9780812911084.
Commission on the Truth for El Salvador (1993).
From Madness to Hope: The 12-Year War in El Salvador (PDF).
UN Security Council.
Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 January 2011.
Retrieved 28 July 2009.
Danner, Mark (1994).
The Massacre at El Mozote: A Parable of the Cold War.
New York: Vintage Books.
ISBN 978-0679755258.
Didion, Joan (1983).
Salvador.
New York: Simon & Schuster.
ISBN 978-0679751830.
Federal Research Division (1988).
A Country Study: El Salvador.
Washington, D.C.: US Library of Congress.
Guzman, John (2011).
Reflections behind the retina.
United States: Xlibris.
ISBN 9781465309440.
LeoGrande, William M.
(1998).
Our Own Backyard: The United States in Central America, 1977–1992.
Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North Carolina Press.
ISBN 9780807848579.
Montgomery, Tommie Sue (1995).
Revolution in El Salvador: From Civil Strife to Civil Peace.
Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press.
ISBN 9780813300719.
Whitfield, Teresa (1995).
Paying the Price: Ignacio Ellacuría and the Murdered Jesuits of El Salvador.
Philadelphia: Temple University Press.
ISBN 9781566392532.
Binford, Leigh (1996).
The El Mozote Massacre.
University of Arizona Press.
Wright, Barbara.
White Hands (Novel Excerpt).
Stony Brook, N.Y.: Southampton Review, Vol.
IV, No.
1, Spring 2010.
Archived from the original on 7 July 2011.
Retrieved 11 September 2010.
Lafeber, Walter (1993).
Inevitable Revolutions: The United States in Central America.
New York: W.
W.
Norton & Company.
ISBN 9780393309645.
Inevitable Revolutions: The United States in Central America.
Fish, Joe (1988).
El Salvador: testament of terror.
London: Zed Books.
ISBN 9780940793194.
Carothers, Thomas (1993).
In the Name of Democracy: U.S.
Policy Toward Latin America in the Reagan Years.
University of California Press.
ISBN 9780520073197.
Lowenthal, Abraham (1991).
Exporting democracy: the United States and Latin America : themes and issues.
Johns Hopkins University Press.
ISBN 9780801841323.
Anderson, Scott (1986).
Inside the League: the shocking exposé of how terrorists, Nazis, and Latin American death squads have infiltrated the world Anti-Communist League.
Dodd Mead.
ISBN 9780396085171.
Grandin, Greg (2007).
Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism.
Holt Paperbacks.
ISBN 9780805077384.
McClintock, Michael (1985).
The American Connection: State Terror and Popular Resistance in El Salvador.
Zed Books.
ISBN 9780862322595.
McClintock, Michael (1992).
Instruments of statecraft: U.S.
guerrilla warfare, counterinsurgency, and counter-terrorism, 1940–1990.
Pantheon Books.
Ugalde, A.; Selva-Sutter, E.; Castillo, C.; Paz, C.; Cañas, S.
(2000).
"The health costs of war: Can they be measured?
Lessons from El Salvador".
British Medical Journal.
321 (7254): 169–172.
doi:10.1136/bmj.321.7254.169.
PMC 1118168.
PMID 10894700.


Journals/academic studies
UNHCR Refworld search for FMLN
Report of the Commission on the Truth for El Salvador (1993)
CIA World Factbook on El Salvador
UN General Assembly Resolution on the "Situation of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in El Salvador"
CIA Threat Assessment of El Salvador in 1979


External links

Unrest in El Salvador from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives
El Salvador Archived 1 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine at the Uppsala Conflict Data Program

Canton of Cébazat
The canton of Cébazat is an administrative division of the Puy-de-Dôme department, central France.
It was created at the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015.
Its seat is in Cébazat.
It consists of the following communes:

Blanzat
Cébazat
Durtol
Nohanent
Sayat


References

Institute of Conjuncture
The Institute of Conjuncture was founded in Moscow in 1920 by Nikolai Kondratiev as a center for the study of business cycles.
As its first director, Kondratiev managed to develop the institute, from just a couple of scientists at its beginning, into an institution with 51 researchers in 1923.
In 1928, the institute was dissolved after the New Economic Policy was replaced with a planned economy.


History
The institute was organized in October 1920 by Nikolai Kondratiev following his arrival in Moscow following a brief stint in jail.
It was at the Institute of Conjuncture that Kondratiev drew up his Five Year Plan for Agriculture.
In the 1920s, the Institute of Conjuncture circulated the Economic Bulletin of the Conjuncture Institute which included an index of retail prices, economic indicators, and theoretical articles.
Though the institute had few researchers at formation, by 1923 it had become a respected institution with fifty-one researchers associated with it.
With the collapse of the NEP and the transition to a planned economy, the Institute closed in 1928.
From the middle of 1927, the head of the Market Research Institute was subjected to harsh political accusations.
In April 1928, N.
Kondratiev was removed from the post of head of the institute, and a little later, he was fired from Narkomfin.
On May 8, by decision of the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR, the institute was ordered to be transferred from the People's Commissariat of Finance to the Central Statistical Directorate.
Attempts to challenge the decision had no effect.
After the transfer of July 14, 1928, 42 people went to work in the CSD.
P.
I.
Popov became the director of the institute.
The most important research activities of the institute stopped, since they were impossible outside the Narkomfin.
The institute was liquidated in January 1930 after the transformation of the Central Statistical Administration into the management of the Gosplan.


References

Baughman (surname)
Baughman (Americanized form of German and Swiss German Bachmann or Baumann, compare Boughman) is a surname.
Notable people with the surname include:

Deiton Baughman (born 1996), American tennis player
Elise Baughman, American voice actress
George F.
Baughman (1915–2004), American university president and United States Naval Reserve officer
J.
Ross Baughman, American Pulitzer Prize winning photojournalist
James L.
Baughman (1952–2016), American journalism professor
John Baughman (1941–2000), American murderer and suspected serial killer
Justin Baughman (born 1974), American baseball player
Mary Baughman (1874–1956), American physician, medical college professor
Milo Baughman (1923–2003), American furniture designer
R.
Wayne Baughman (1941–2022), American wrestler and wrestling coach
Ray Baughman (1943–2025), American chemist and nanotechnologist
Red Baughman, American football coach
T.
H.
Baughman (born 1947), professor of history and author of books on Antarctic exploration
U.
E.
Baughman (1905–1978), chief of the United States Secret Service
Charlotte Baughman, fictional character portrayed by Anya Taylor-Joy as the first girlfriend of Barack Obama in the 2016 American drama film Barry

Berlin Foundry Cup
The Berlin Foundry Cup (German: Erzgießerei-Schale) is a red-figure kylix (drinking cup) from the early 5th century BC.
It is the name vase of the Attic vase painter known conventionally as the Foundry Painter.
Its most striking feature is the exterior depiction of activities in an Athenian bronze workshop or foundry.
It is an important source on ancient Greek metal-working technology.


The cup

The interior image (or tondo) of the cup has a direct connection with metalwork.
It depicts Hephaestus, the god of crafts, including smiths, handing the goddess Thetis armour and weaponry for her son Achilles, who is fighting in the Trojan War.
Achilles is going to use them to avenge his slain friend Patroclus.
The scene is described in Homer's Iliad.
Like other scenes connected with the Trojan War, it is a common motif on Greek vases.
In contrast, the exterior image is unusual.
It depicts a bronze workshop.
The production of a variety of bronze statues is shown at different stages.
At the centre of one side (side A), the statue of a warrior, larger than life-sized, stands within a wooden scaffolding.
His body his protected by a circular shield held in his left hand; his right hand is about to thrust a raised spear.
Unusually, the cheek-guards of the helmet are folded upwards; the painter probably used this to depict the statue's face more clearly.
The statue appears to be in the final stages of production, since two workers, one of them marked as a smith by his characteristic leather cap, are smoothing or polishing its surface.
They are flanked on each side by a man leaning on a crook and watching the workmen.
They appear to neither represent additional workmen, nor the owners of the workshop, but rather random passers-by on the way to or from the palaistra.
They were probably going to (or just did) engage in athletic activity, as indicated by the sports-related items (an oil flask and a strigil) suspended behind them.

On the opposite side (side B), a second statue is being made.
It appears to be that of an athlete.
The statue, still headless, is lying on a sand or clay support; a workman is holding one of its arms, carefully manipulating it with a hammer.
The statue's head lies at his feet.
A line between the statue's arm and hand indicates that the two parts are not fully joined yet.
The soldering to join them (in reality it would have been an alloy of lead, antimony and tin with a low melting point) is probably being prepared in the furnace.
Behind the furnace, a youth is manipulating a bellows to kindle the fire; in front of it, a seated workman appears to be heating a metal rod.
Metal workshops existed in the Athenian potters' quarter, the Kerameikos.
Thus, it is likely that the Foundry Painter's depiction of the workshop is based on personal observation.
Some details, such as the furnace, are, however, depicted in a way that differs from the known archaeological evidence.
This is probably simply because certain adjustments of reality were necessary to effectively paint or compose the scene.
At least some of the depicted workmen appear to be slaves.
For example, the man in front of the oven is crouched in such a way that his genitals are visible, a style of depiction normally limited to satyrs and slaves.
There are three kalos inscriptions on the vase: On the interior O PAIS KALOS (the boy is beautiful), on exterior side A DIOGENES KALOS NAICHI (Diogenes is beautiful, too) and on exterior side B O PAIS KALOS NAICHI (this boy is beautiful, too).
Apart from a few damaged areas on the interior figure of Thetis, the vase is in an excellent state of preservation.
It is Late Archaic in style, and dates to circa 490/480 BC.
Its diameter is 30.5 cm.
Originally, such cups were used at the symposium.
The Foundry cup had been exported to Etruria and was discovered in Vulci, probably in a grave.
In 1837 it was acquired for the Antikensammlung at Berlin, Germany.
Currently, it is on display in section 15 ("Die Götter Griechenlands" - "The Gods of Greece") of the Altes Museum.


See also
Bronze sculpture
Lost-wax casting


Bibliography
Gerhard Zimmer: Trinkschale.
Namensgebendes Werk des Erzgießerei-Malers, in: Andreas Scholl (ed.): Die Antikensammlung: Altes Museum.
Pergamonmuseum, von Zabern, Mainz 2007, p.
68f., ISBN 978-3-8053-2449-6
Gerhard Zimmer: Antike Werkstattbilder, Mann, Berlin 1982 (Bilderheft der Staatlichen Museen Preussischer Kulturbesitz, Heft 42) ISBN 3-7861-1381-5


References


External links
Berlin F 2294

Avakpa
Avakpa is a town and arrondissement (administrative district) in the Atlantique Department of southern Benin.
It is an administrative division under the jurisdiction of the commune of Allada.
According to the population census conducted by the Institut National de la Statistique Benin on February 15, 2002, the arrondissement had a total population of 3,987.



References

Sky of Stone
Sky of Stone is a memoir by Homer Hickam, Jr.
about his hometown of Coalwood, West Virginia, the third in a trilogy that began with Rocket Boys and continued with The Coalwood Way.
The book was published by Delacorte Press in October 2001, with a mass-market paperback edition from Dell in October 2002.


Plot
In Sky of Stone, Hickam has gone off to college at Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
His mother, who is living separated from her husband in Myrtle Beach, contacts him and asks him to return home to Coalwood to help his father.
He arrives to find his father, the mine superintendent, is being investigated by the coal company because of a fatal mining accident.
 After wrecking the family car the young Hickam needs to pay for the repairs, and he takes a job in the coal mine for the summer in a program set up by the United Mine Workers of America for college students.
 His father, who although he wanted to see his son grow up to be a mining engineer is fervently anti-union, and his mother, who swore her sons would never work in a coal mine, are both against this.
 He defies the wishes of his parents to take the job.
 His father in response cuts off his college funds.
A female mining engineer (Rita) is in town, as is the standard practice of the parent company sending new engineers to gain experience working in the mine.
 Due to superstition ingrained in local custom, she is not allowed in the mine unlike the male engineers.
 She vows to be the first woman in the mine, and tries to get young Hickam to sneak her in one night.
 They are caught and this fails.
 Meanwhile, she unveils a plan to replace all the track inside the mine.
 Two teams will work from opposite ends of the mine replacing track, one from Coalwood and the other from Caretta (the two mines adjoin).
 Homer Hickam, Jr.
is one of three people working on the Coalwood team, which is led by a devout Pentecostal Christian (Johnny Basso).
 The work becomes a race and a contest between the two teams, with the other miners placing bets on whether Coalwood or Caretta will win.
As the race goes on over the summer, so does the investigation of Hickam Sr.
 As the investigation unfolds, more mysteries are revealed, including the identity of a disabled worker still secretly on the coal mine's payroll, and the fate of the Hickam family's pet fox 'Parkyacarcass'.
 In the end, Hickam Sr.
is cleared, the Hickam family is reunited, and Rita is allowed in the mine, but the Coalwood team loses the contest by a hair.


See also
October Sky - the film shows him dropping out of high school to work in the mine, which didn't actually happen.
 That part of the film does use material from when he later worked in the mine as depicted in Sky of Stone, such as the line "turn your light on, boy".


References

New York Times review by Robert Morgan

Greg Smith (rugby union, born 1974)
Gregory James Smith (born 14 July 1974) is a former professional rugby union footballer, who played as a hooker.



Career
Smith was born and raised in New Zealand but he qualified to play for Fiji because his father was born there.
He was first selected for Fiji by former coach Brad Johnstone on the recommendation of Waikato's John Boe.
He toured the UK with the Fiji team in 1995 and he made his debut against Wales which Fiji lost by 21–22.
He joined the Waikato Rugby Union after that and he made it into the Chiefs squad for the Super 12 competition.
He played for the Chiefs for  six  years before leaving New Zealand and going to Europe to play for the Swansea club in Wales.
He returned a year later to play in the NPC match against Auckland but lost in the final.
A neck injury kept him out of the 2001 tour to Italy and France and then a foot injury saw him miss the 2003 Rugby World Cup qualifiers in June and July 2002 and he also missed the test against Australia and Argentina but he recovered in time for the 2003 Rugby World Cup and he was made captain of the Fiji team.
After retiring in 2005, he was made a resource coach for the Black Ferns, and was recently appointed as an assistant coach to Samoa.
He has coached for nine years in Japan and held a number of provincial coaching roles including a specialist resource coach role for the Chiefs.
In December 2014, he was made the head coach for the Black ferns team through to the next Women's Rugby World Cup in 2017.
Smith voluntarily stepped down as New Zealand women's head coach on 16 June 2015.


Fiji Team
Smith also attended Waikato University from 1993–1996 and was friends with Robert Diver.

Test debut: 1995 vs Wales in Cardiff
46 caps 1 try 5 pts (70 games 1 try)


Notes

Mod Kashin-class destroyer
The Modified Kashin class were six ships built and modified based on the Kashin-class destroyer for the Soviet Navy between 1973 and 1980.
Five more ships were built after that for the Indian Navy.
The Soviet designation for the Mod Kashin is Project 61MP.


Added Equipment
The main addition to the selected ships were four SS-N-2C anti-ship missile launchers.
A pair of AK-630 30mm gatling guns were installed on the sides of the ship, along with a Bass Tilt fire control radar warranting the removal of two RBU-1000 rocket launchers.
 The landing pad mounted on the stern of the normal Kashin classes were replaced with a helicopter platform.
The last change made to the Kashins was an increased forward superstructure on two decks.


General characteristics
Displacement - Standard: 3,950 tons, full load: 4,950 tons
Length - 146 m (480 ft), overall
Beam - 15.8 m (52 ft)
Draught - 4.8 m (16 ft)
Propulsions - 2 shaft; COGAG; 4 gas-turbines, 35 knots maximum.
Complement - 320
Armament -
Surface-to-surface missiles: 4 SS-N-2C launchers; 4 missiles.
Anti-air: 2 twin SA-N-1 launchers; 44 missiles, 4 AK-630 30mm gatling guns.
Anti-submarine: 2 12-barreled RBU-6000 rocket launchers, five rows of 533mm (21 in) torpedo tubes.


Ships


Soviet Navy


Indian Navy


References

Kokkai Futoshi
Kokkai Futoshi (born March 10, 1981, as Levan Tsaguria, Georgian: ლევან ცაგურია) is a former professional sumo wrestler from Georgia.
He began his career in May 2001.
He is the first Georgian rikishi to reach sumo's highest division, makuuchi, which he achieved in 2004.
His highest rank was komusubi, which he reached in 2006.
He earned two special prizes for Fighting Spirit and two gold stars for defeating yokozuna.
He wrestled for Oitekaze stable.


Early life and sumo background

Kokkai was born as Levan Tsaguria in Sukhumi, Abkhaz Autonomous Republic in then-Soviet Georgia.
The secessionist war in Abkhazia forced his family to move to Tbilisi, capital of Georgia, in 1992.
He started amateur wrestling from the age of six, being taught by his father who represented the Soviet Union in the sport.
Levan enrolled in the National Academy of Sports of Georgia and quickly got interested in sumo, taking part in the World Amateur Sumo Championships in Riesa, Germany.
In January 2001, he arrived in Tokyo, Japan, and joined a local sumo school.
He made his professional debut in May 2001, joining Oitekaze stable.
His stablemaster, former maegashira Daishoyama, gave him the shikona, or ring name, of Kokkai, named after the word for Black Sea in Japanese.
He quickly rose through the lower divisions, winning the jonidan and sandanme championships with perfect 7–0 records.
Another tournament title in the makushita division in January 2003 followed by a 5–2 score at Makushita 1 saw him reach elite sekitori status in May 2003.
After winning the jūryō division championship with a 14–1 record in November 2003 he was promoted to the top makuuchi division in January 2004, just 16 tournaments after his debut.


Top division career

Kokkai steadily climbed the maegashira ranks, reaching the #1 position in November 2004 before slipping back slightly.
One of his best performances came in July 2005 when he defeated yokozuna Asashōryū for the first time, scored nine wins and was awarded the Fighting Spirit prize.
He made his san'yaku debut in September 2006 at komusubi rank and held it with a solid 8–7 record, but he fell back to the maegashira ranks after a back injury restricted him to a poor 3–12 mark in November.
In March 2007 he turned in an impressive 10–5 score but he struggled again in May 2007, only managing three wins at the rank of maegashira 2.
After another losing score in July of that year he fell to maegashira 12 in September, his lowest-ever top-division rank.
He managed nine wins in November 2007, his first kachi-koshi, or winning score, since March.
After a solid 9–6 performance in January 2008, in the following tournament he produced his best-ever top-division result, a 12–3 score from the rank of maegashira 5, which earned him joint runner-up honours behind Asashōryū and his second Fighting Spirit prize.
However, in the May 2008 tournament he could only manage three wins from the maegashira 1 ranking.
Demoted to maegashira 10 for July, he struggled again, winning only five bouts.
He was disqualified from his final match against Kimurayama after his was judged to have pulled his opponent's topknot, which is a kinjite, or foul.
Kokkai maintained it was accidental as the tape on his fingers had stuck to Kimurayama's hair.
He continued to move up and down the maegashira rankings in 2009, alternating between 8–7 and 5–10 records.
Having not missed a bout since his debut, in July 2010 he fought his 600th consecutive top-division match.
Troubled by an elbow injury, he lost his top division status after the January 2011 tournament when he could only score 3–12 at maegashira 15, ending a run of 43 consecutive tournaments ranked in makuuchi.
Back in jūryō for the May Technical Examination Tournament, he struggled to a 5–10 score.
He returned to the top division in September 2011, but his stay was short-lived after a disastrous 1–14 performance in November.
He was forced to pull out of the May 2012 tournament with an injury sustained in a defeat to Takanoyama on Day 10, breaking a run of 882 consecutive appearances since his professional debut in 2001, the most amongst active wrestlers.
He was, however, able to return to the tournament and secured his majority of wins on the final day.

Kokkai was joined in the top division by several wrestlers from Eastern Europe, including Kotoōshū from Bulgaria, Aran from Russia, and Baruto from Estonia.
In May 2008 a fellow Georgian, Tochinoshin, was also promoted to  makuuchi, and Kokkai defeated him in their first match that July.
Kokkai is also good friends with former top-division wrestler Kakizoe.
He has knowledge of four languages: Georgian, Russian, English and Japanese.
He is a devout Christian and prays every day.
He would sometimes choose not to shave during a tournament for superstitious reasons and would therefore build up stubble, unusual for sumo wrestlers who are normally clean-shaven.
He once also appeared with prominent sideburns for a few days, before he was told by his stablemaster to shave them off.
In 2010 he was awarded the Honor Medal by Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili in recognition of raising the profile of his country abroad.


Retirement from sumo
During the September 2012 tournament, Kokkai's stablemaster announced his retirement due to multiple injuries to his body over his sumo career, which had prevented him from training for the last few months.
He went back to his native Georgia to work in the private sector.
In April 2018 he was voted by unanimous decision to be the president of the Georgian Sumo Federation for a term of four years.
Under his presidency, the Georgian association sent a delegation of young wrestlers to take part in the Hakuhō Cup on two occasions.


Fighting style
Due to a neck injury, Kokkai was forced to change his sumo style.
He began to fight more on the mawashi, gripping his opponent's belt, switching from the pushing and thrusting techniques he used earlier in his career.
His profile at the Japan Sumo Association still lists tsuki/oshi as his favoured techniques, and his most common winning kimarite was oshi-dashi, or push-out, followed by yori-kiri, or force-out.
He was also fond of using the slap-down (hataki-komi) and the pull-down (hiki-otoshi).


Family
Kokkai's younger brother George also became a professional sumo wrestler in September 2005 under the name Tsukasaumi, but quit after just a year following the death of their mother, returning to Georgia to take over the family business.
Kokkai was married to a 22-year-old from his native country Georgia in August 2011.


Career record


See also
List of sumo tournament top division runners-up
List of sumo tournament second division champions
Glossary of sumo terms
List of non-Japanese sumo wrestlers
List of past sumo wrestlers
List of komusubi


References


External links

Official biography of Kokkai Futoshi at the Grand Sumo Homepage

The Spokesman-Review
The Spokesman-Review is a daily broadsheet newspaper based in Spokane, Washington, the city's sole remaining daily publication.
It has the third-highest readership among daily newspapers in the state, with most of its readership base in eastern Washington and northern Idaho.


History

The Spokesman-Review was formed from the merger of the Spokane Falls Review (1883–1894) and the Spokesman (1890–1893) in 1893 and first published under the present name on June 29, 1894.
The Spokane Falls Review was a joint venture between local businessman, A.M.
Cannon and Henry Pittock and Harvey W.
Scott of The Oregonian.
The Spokesman-Review later absorbed its competing sister publication, the afternoon Spokane Daily Chronicle.
Long co-owned, the two combined their sports departments in late 1981 and news staffs in early 1983.
The middle name "Daily" was dropped in January 1982, and its final edition was printed 33 years ago on Friday, July 31, 1992.
The newspaper formerly published three editions, a metro edition covering Spokane and the outlying areas, a Spokane Valley edition and an Idaho edition covering northern Idaho.
After a large downsizing of the newsroom staff in November 2007, the paper moved to a single zoned edition emphasizing localized "Voices" sections staffed primarily by non-union employees.
The "Voices" section still caters to the three original editions, publishing a Valley "Voices", a North Spokane "Voices" and a South Spokane "Voices".
Owner of both papers since 1897, W.H.
Cowles set the Chronicle on a course to be independent and The Spokesman-Review to support Republican Party causes.
Time magazine related the papers' success gaining lowered rates for freight carried to the Northwest and an improved park system and that helped the region.
Increasing its reputation for comprehensive local news and by opposing "gambling, liquor and prostitution," The Spokesman-Review gained popularity.
The paper's opposition to building the Grand Coulee Dam was not quite so universally applauded, and when it opposed the New Deal and the Fair Deal, it so disturbed President Harry Truman that during a visit in 1948 he declared The Spokesman-Review to be one of the "two worst" newspapers in the nation (Chicago Tribune, the other).
The Scripps League's Press closed in 1939, making Cowles the only newspaper publisher in Spokane.
Cowles created four weeklies, the Idaho Farmer, Washington Farmer, Oregon Farmer, and Utah Farmer.
Cowles died in 1946.
When William H.
Cowles Jr.
succeeded his father as publisher, James Bracken received much more news and editorial control as managing editor.
The Spokesman-Review has been described as moderate-to-liberal, especially in issues around hate groups in the region.
In 1997, three extreme-right militants were tried and eventually convicted of bombing the Spokane Valley office of The Spokesman-Review as well as an abortion clinic (see Citizens Rule Book).
The Spokesman-Review is also one of the few remaining family-owned newspapers in the United States.
It is owned by Cowles Company, which also owns KHQ-TV/Spokane and The KHQ Television Group.
While the newspaper wins awards, it also draws opposition from local critics and activists who suspect the Cowles family of using its alleged vast local media influence to sway public opinion.
In particular, a (1997–2004) issue regarding a public-private partnership wherein the Cowles family may have profited, some claim, up to $20 million.
This is referred to as the "River Park Square Parking Garage" issue.
The newspaper underwent an independent review by the Washington News Council regarding its River Park Square coverage and was found to be at fault for its news bias.
In 2004, Spokane mayor James E.
West became the target of a sting operation conducted by The Spokesman-Review.
Some journalists and academics criticized the paper for what they saw as a form of entrapment.
West was later cleared of criminal charges by the FBI but not before the mayor lost a recall vote by the citizens of Spokane in December 2005; the following summer, West died of cancer.
According to the Audit Bureau of Circulations, as reported in the Puget Sound Business Journal on April 29, 2010, the newspaper's average Sunday circulation totaled 95,939 and weekly circulation averaged 76,291.
That represented a year-over-year decrease of about 10.5 percent; a trend widely reflected during the same year in newspapers throughout Washington state.
With the demise of the print edition of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, The Spokesman-Review is the state's third-largest paper, after the Seattle Times and The News-Tribune of Tacoma.
A 2017 Rotary Club article stated that under editor Rob Curley, hired in 2016, circulation increased from 68,000 to 82,000 in one year.
In April 2020, the paper ceased printing its Saturday edition.
In 2025, the Cowles family announced it will donate The Spokesman-Review to the nonprofit Comma Community Journalism Laboratory.
A few months later Hagadone Media Group of Coeur d’Alene announced it will print The Spokesman-Review after the paper's previous in-house printer Northwest Offset Printing announced it was ceasing operations.


References


Further reading
Jim Kershner, "The Spokesman-Review (Spokane)," History Link, July 26, 2012.
Greg Lamm, "Washington's Dailies See Subscriber Exodus," Puget Sound Business Journal, April 29, 2010.


External links
Official website
The Spokesman Review Google News archive, news.google.com/ —PDFs of 31,191 issues dated 1889 to 2007.
PBS Frontline report A Hidden Life (November 2006)

Chrystos
Chrystos (; born November 7, 1946, as Christina Smith) is a two-spirit writer and activist whose work explores Native American civil rights, social justice, and feminism.
They are of mixed Menominee–Lithuanian/Alsace–Lorraine heritage.
Chrystos is also a lecturer, writing teacher, and artist.


Life
Chrystos was born off-reservation in San Francisco, California, was taught to read by their self-educated father, and began writing poetry at age nine.
Chrystos had a difficult childhood, including being sexually abused by a relative.
They lived with their abusive mother, Virginia (née Lunkes), who was of Lithuanian and Alsatian descent, and their father of Menominee heritage, Fletcher L.
Smith, who was a World War II veteran.
At the age of seventeen, Chrystos was placed into a psychiatric hospital.
They fell into drug addiction, alcoholism, and prostitution during this time.
They were re-institutionalized several more times before deciding it was ineffective in helping their mental health issues.

Chrystos is a lesbian and two-spirit.
They moved to Bainbridge Island, Washington in 1980.
They have been a resident of Ocean Shores, Washington since 2011.


Career
A self-described political poet, Chrystos was inspired by familial issues stemming from European American cultural hegemony, and more positively influenced by the works of Audre Lorde, Joy Harjo, Elizabeth Woody, and Lillian Pitt, among others.
They produced a series of volumes of poetry and prose throughout the 1980s and 1990s.
Chrystos' work focuses on social justice issues, such as how colonialism and racism affect the lives of women, lesbians, and Indigenous people.
Their works are primarily intended for an audience of Indigenous people, other people of color, and lesbians.
Their works are also intended to help Native Americans connect with their heritage and to break down stereotypes.
Scholar Sandra M.
Cox describes Chrystos' work as a form of autoethnography.
Chrystos self-illustrated many of their books covers, and often had their books published in Canada to work around censorious American publishers and lack of support for writers in the United States.
While they're better known for their poems about social justice, Chrystos also has a significant body of erotic poetry.
It is more celebratory and its presentation more formal than their other work.
Chrystos co-edited Best Lesbian Erotica 1999 with Tristan Taormino.

Chrystos' awards include a National Endowment for the Arts grant, the Sappho Award of Distinction from the Astraea Lesbian Foundation for Justice, a Barbara Deming Memorial Fund grant, and the Audre Lorde International Poetry Competition.
Scholars have suggested that Chrystos uses Indigenous expressions of eroticism as an antidote to the repressive effects of colonialism upon Indigenous genders and sexuality.



Activism
Chrystos was part of efforts to free Norma Jean Croy and Leonard Peltier, and their activism often focuses on the rights of Native American peoples including the Navajo and Mohawk people.
In a 2010 interview, Chrystos described their social justice interests as "diverse," citing abortion rights, domestic violence, and prisoners' rights.


Works
This Bridge Called My Back, Kitchen Table, 1981; contributor
Not Vanishing, Vancouver: Press Gang Publishers, 1988, ISBN 0-88974-015-1
Dream On, Vancouver: Press Gang Publishers, 1991
In Her I Am, Vancouver: Press Gang Publishers, 1993
Fugitive Colors, Cleveland State University Poetry Center, 1995, ISBN 1-880834-11-1
Fire Power, Vancouver: Press Gang Publishers, 1995, ISBN 0-88974-047-X
Some Poems by People I Like (Sandra Alland, editor), Toronto: SandrasLittleBookshop, 2007, ISBN 978-0-9739540-1-2; contributor
Best Lesbian Erotica 1999, Cleis Press, 1999, ISBN 1573440493; co-editor


See also

Native American studies
Lesbian poetry


References

Niederaula
Niederaula is a market community in Hersfeld-Rotenburg district in northeastern Hesse, Germany, 59 km south of Kassel.


Geography


Location
The community lies on the Fulda between the outliers of the Rhön, the Vogelsberg and the Knüllgebirge (ranges).
Within town limits, the rivers Aula, Jossa and Hattenbach all empty into the Fulda.
The nearest major towns or cities are Bad Hersfeld, 10 km to the northeast, Alsfeld, 24 km to the west and Fulda, 29 km to the south.


Neighbouring communities
Niederaula borders in the north on the community of Kirchheim and the town of Bad Hersfeld, in the east on the community of Hauneck, in the south on the community of Haunetal (all in Hersfeld-Rotenburg) and the town of Schlitz (in the Vogelsbergkreis) and in the west on the community of Breitenbach am Herzberg (in Hersfeld-Rotenburg).


Constituent communities
Niederaula’s eight Ortsteile are Niederaula, Mengshausen, Solms, Niederjossa (700 inhabitants), Hattenbach, Kleba, Kerspenhausen and Hilperhausen.


History
In 779, Niederaula had its first documentary mention in connection with one of Charlemagne’s donations to the Hersfeld Abbey.
The outlying centre of Niederjossa held a 1,225-year jubilee celebration in the first week of August 2007.


Amalgamations
In 1970, the communities of Niederaula and Mengshausen merged into a greater community.
In 1972, the communities of Kleba, Hattenbach, Niederjossa, Solms and Kerspenhausen with its outlying centres of Roßbach and Hilperhausen also joined.


Politics


Community council

The municipal election held on 26 March 2006 yielded the following results:


Mayors
The mayor Helmut Opfer (SPD) was elected on 22 September 2002 with 88.0% of the vote.
On 14 September 2008, Thomas Rohrbach (independent) was elected with 54.29% of the vote.


Coat of arms
The community’s arms might be described thus: Gules a fess wavy abased argent, above which an owl guardant of the second armed Or, in chief sinister a mullet of eight of the second.
The coat of arms was conferred on the community on 28 February 1978.
The owl comes from the name of the river Aula, pronounced similarly to the English word "owl", although the German word is Eule, pronounced [ˈɔʏlə].
The wavy fess stands for the four rivers that flow through Niederaula and the eight-pointed star stands for the community’s eight centres.
The star was chosen because the Counts of Ziegenhain, who bore a star in their arms, were for centuries influential here.


Culture and sightseeing


Buildings
Heussner-Turm, a lookout tower on the Mengshäuser Kuppe
Wallenfels castle site


Sport
The skat club Aulataler Asse – the second word means “Aces” – won the International Skat Players Association cup final in partnership with the club Alter Markt from Borken in 2007.


Economy and infrastructure
Given its geographical location and its favourable transport connections, Niederaula has developed itself into a “logistical centre”, as at the time of German reunification, it found itself right in the middle of the newly reconstituted country.
Several logistical service businesses have built central locations in Niederaula for the transfer of their transports.


Transport

Niederaula lies right at the Autobahn interchanges known as the Kirchheim and Hattenbach Triangles – so-called because each is a three-way Autobahn junction – putting Autobahnen A 4 (Aachen–Görlitz), A 5 (Hattenbach–Basel) and A 7 (Flensburg–Füssen) right nearby.
The A 7 Kirchheim interchange is 5 km away from Niederaula, and the Niederaula interchange 2 km away.
Furthermore, Bundesstraße 62 runs through Niederaula, although because it parallels the Autobahnen, it has no further importance to long-distance travel, merely serving now as a bypass.
Not far from the community’s western edge runs the Hanover-Würzburg high-speed rail line, although trains do not stop there.
Even the small railway station on the Bad Hersfeld-Treysa and Niederaula-Alsfeld lines sees no more passenger service, and goods trains only run for operational reasons owing to a manual level crossing.
The nearest railway service is therefore to be had in the district seat of Bad Hersfeld some 12 km away.
Buslines 322, 372 and 374 run to Bad Hersfeld, as does the shared taxi 371, which can be arranged by telephone.
All these services are run by the Nordhessischer Verkehrsverbund (“North Hesse Transport Association”, NVV).


Established businesses
Deutsche Post international postal distribution centre
TNT Innight GmbH & Co.
KG hub and location
UPS distribution centre
General Overnight sorting centre
Logit Services GmbH distribution centre
System Alliance GmbH (piece goods) head office
Gies GmbH & Co.
Kunststoffwerk KG (plastic container manufacturer)
Rotpunkt Dr.
Anso Zimmermann GmbH (vacuum flask manufacturer)
Julius Zange GmbH & Co.KG brickworks and specialized builders


References


External links
(in German)

Victor Odelberg
Victor James Wilhelm Odelberg, (19 November 1875 in Gustavsberg - 10 March 1951) was a Swedish hofjægermester.
He was the son of Wilhelm Odelberg and the brother of Axel Odelberg.
In 1900, Odelberg took his agronom graduation at Ultuna lantbruksinstitut, and was employed at Gustavsberg porslinsfabrik that was owned by his father.
After the death of his father in 1924 Victor over as CEO of the factory and his brother became the chairman.
Posts that they held on to until 1937.


References

Reilly & Maloney
Reilly & Maloney was an American folk music duo that were formed in the 1970s, composed of Ginny Reilly and David Maloney.
Based in Seattle and in the San Francisco Bay Area, they performed for two decades.
They toured nationally, appearing with artists such as Judy Collins and Tom Paxton.
Together they issued seven vinyl LPs, before breaking up in the late 1980s and each going on to solo careers.

They began playing together again in the early 2000s, after a ten-year hiatus.
2016 was their "45th Anniversary Farewell Tour", ending on December 11 with a concert at the Tim Noah Thumbnail Theater in Snohomish, Washington.
Dave Maloney died on March 3, 2023.


Discography


Reilly & Maloney


Ginny Reilly


David Maloney


References


External links
"Reilly and Maloney official website".
Archived from the original on May 23, 2019.
Reilly & Maloney discography at Discogs

Jan Karafiát (author)
Jan Karafiát (4 January 1846 – 31 January 1929) was a Czech clergyman of the Evangelical Church of Czech Brethren and author.
He is best known for his classic children's book Broučci, the Czech language word for Fireflies, that was first published in the early 1870s.
Traditional Czech figurines of fairylike insect people are based on the characters in the book.
He is also known for his poetry, which often reflected his religious beliefs, additionally he was one of the reviewers of Bible of Kralice – the first Czech protestant translation of the Bible.


Life
Karafiát was born to a wealthy family in Jimramov in 1846.
He went to school at Gütersloh.
He studied theology in Litomyšl, Berlin (1866–1867), Bonn (1867–1868), Vienna (1866–1869) and Edinburgh (1871–1872).
He became Vicar at Roudnice nad Labem and in 1874 an administrator of the Protestant theological seminar in Čáslav.
From 1875 until his conflict with the consistory in Vienna in 1895, he led the parish of Velká Lhota (that time called Hrubá Lhota).
From that point until his death in 1929, he lived in Prague.
Jan Karafiát was buried in Vinohrady Cemetery.


References

Pine Air, Florida
Pine Air is a census-designated place (CDP) in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States.
It is a part of the Miami metropolitan area of South Florida.
The population was 2,190 as of the 2020 census.


Geography
Pine Air is located at 26°39′32″N 80°06′26″W.
It is bordered by Military Trail (State Road 809) to the west and the village of Palm Springs to the south.


Demographics


2020 census

As of the 2020 United States census, there were 2,190 people, 626 households, and 425 families residing in the CDP.


2010 census

As of the 2010 United States census, there were 2,024 people, 672 households, and 503 families residing in the CDP.


References

Moselle's 4th constituency
The 4th constituency of Moselle is a French legislative constituency in the Moselle département.


Description
Moselle's 4th constituency covers the areas in the south east of the department, it is the largest in terms of area in Moselle.
It is bordered to the south by Meurthe-et-Moselle and to the east by Haut-Rhin.
The constituency has normally been held by conservative parties throughout the Fifth Republic with the exception of the fourteen years between 1988 and 2002 when it has held by Aloyse Warhouver.
The constituency is also notable for being the home seat of former Prime Minister Pierre Messmer.


Historic Representation


Election results


2024

->
 


2022


2017


2012


Sources
Official results of French elections from 2002: "Résultats électoraux officiels en France" (in French).

Lined butterflyfish
The lined butterflyfish (Chaetodon lineolatus) is a species of marine ray-finned fish.
a butterflyfish belonging to the family Chaetodontidae, one of the largest species in the genus Chaetodon.
It has a wide range from the Red Sea to South Africa and as far east as southern Japan and Hawaii.


Taxonomy
It belongs to the large subgenus Rabdophorus which might warrant recognition as a distinct genus.
In this group, it seems to be member of a lineage also containing species such as the spot-naped butterflyfish (C.
oxycephalus), or the peculiar black-wedged butterflyfish (C.
falcula) and Pacific double-saddle butterflyfish or "false falcula" (C.
ulietensis).
These four differ wildly in shape, but all have bluish vertical lines on a white body with yellow behind, and black on back and caudal peduncle in addition to the typical eyestripe of Chaetodon.
The blue-cheeked butterflyfish (C.
semilarvatus) seems to be a far more basal lineage of Rabdophorus relative to them, but it also has the tell-tale blue vertical lines.


Description
Lined butterflyfish may grow up to 30 centimetres (12 in) long, which among Chaetodon is matched only by the saddle butterflyfish (C.
ephippium), making them about as big as dinner plates.
They are white in color, with thin black vertical bars which join a thick black band at the base of the tail and dorsal fin.
The tail, dorsal, and anal fins are yellow.


Distribution and habitat

The species occurs along the east coast of Africa including the Red Sea and Mozambique Channel, throughout Northern Australia including the Coral Sea, Gulf of Carpentaria, and Timor Sea, and throughout West Indo-Pacific including the Java Sea, South China Sea, Philippine Sea, and Celebes Sea.
This uncommon fish is found in pairs or swimming alone, or occasionally in spawning aggregations.
It occurs between 2 and 50 m depth, in coral-rich areas of reefs and lagoons.


Ecology
Coral polyps, small anemones, algae and invertebrates make up the lined butterflyfish's diet.
It is known to be territorial.
 This territorialism is connected to their highly specific feeding habits that is located on certain areas.
The species can reach an age of up to ten years.


Development
Larvae of fish in the family Chaetodontidae have a random distribution pattern causing them to settle either in the same habitats as adult conspecifics; habitats with high coral cover; or habitats completely different from those used by adult conspecifics.
Juveniles that are not in an adult habitat live in their current habitat until reaching maturity.
Once they reached post-settlement growth of greater than 100 mm, they migrate to adult habitats if they are not already in that environment.


Reproduction
Very little is known about the spawning of butterflyfish as a whole, however it is believed that they spawn near their feeding habitats during new moon.
The lined butterflyfish mates in lifelong monogamous relationships.
However, the male chooses to either stay with its one mate or leave and find another mate.
This appears to maximize their fecundity.
Lined butterflyfish are social maters, meaning they spend time with their mate outside of just spawning often living together in the same habitat.
The species however exhibits little to no parental care to their young.


Predation
The species is preyed on by many larger marine predators including sharks, eels, and snappers; predation may be intensified by loss of habitats and feeding grounds.


Ecosystem roles
Corals and members of the family Chaetodontidae were thought to have a commensal relationship.
Coral provides the butterflyfish with food and shelter while coral gets little to nothing in return.
However, upon further investigation it seems that C.
lineolatus and other corallivore members of Chaetodontidae pose a bigger threat to coral than previously understood.
Corallivores disturb the growth of coral species.
This predation may have a long-term effect of on reef biodiversity.
The loss of habitat affects reef fishes, including the Chaetodontidae, by making them more prone to predation from larger fishes.


Conservation status
The species is classified as Least Concern by the IUCN due to its wide distribution and presence in protected areas.
Its biggest threat is the loss of habitat via coral reef degradation, due to the overdevelopment and over-use of coral reefs and their resources.


References


External links

Fishes of Australia : Chaetodon lineolatus
Photos of Lined butterflyfish in the Sealife Collection

Yevgeniy Zhilyayev
Yevgeniy Zhilyayev (born 13 July 1973 in Almaty) is a Kazakhstani water polo player.
At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed for the Kazakhstan men's national water polo team in the men's event, but he has won no Olympic honor.
He is 6 ft 3 in (191 cm) tall.


References


External links
Yevgeniy Zhilyayev at Olympics.com
Yevgeniy Zhilyayev at Olympedia

Jiřina Žertová
Jiřina Žertová, née Rejholcová (born 13 August 1932) is a Czech sculptor, painter, glass and art-industrial artist.


Life
Jiřina Žertová comes from a family of  Josef Rejholec, an official of the Supreme State Audit Office in Prague.
From 1947 to 1950 she studied at the State Graphic Arts School under Prof.
Zdeněk Balaš.
In 1949, the school was renamed Higher School of Art Industry, where she studied in the studio of Petr Dillinger.
Her classmate and friend was Zdena Strobachová, and her older colleagues were Adriena Šimotová or Jiří John.
Already after her third year of graphic design school, she passed the exam for the Academy of Arts, Architecture and Design in Prague, where she was admitted in 1950, shortly after the February Communist coup and at a time of severe political persecution.
Despite this, Professor Josef Kaplický managed to maintain a liberal and creative atmosphere in the studio.
 A group of students gathered here (René Roubíček, Stanislav Libenský, Václav Cigler, Vladimír Kopecký, Vratislav Šotola, Stanislav Oliva, Rudolf Volráb, etc.), who were interested in modern painting and graphics and could apply their ideas in work with etched and painted glass.
At that time, magazines such as Cahiers d'Art were still available in the Museum of Decorative Arts library, where it was possible to get acquainted with modern French art.
Jiřina Žertová finished her studies in 1955 with a design for a monumental stained glass panel with a horse motif.
She managed to obtain a scholarship from the Union of Czechoslovak Artists and the following year she worked at the Glass Centre on designs for utility glass intended for industrial production.
She married the geologist Bedřich Žert, with whom she has a daughter Pavlína (* 1956) and a son Jan (* 1959).
Since 1956 she has worked as an independent artist and has been working freelance.
She was one of the most successful graduates of Josef Kaplický's studio and her glass designs were regularly exhibited at Czech glass shows.
She has been exhibiting independently since 1973 (Vienna).
In 1989 she had a solo exhibition at the Heller Gallery, New York and Nakama Gallery, Tokyo, in 1992 in Miller Gallery, New York.
She collaborated externally with Bohemia Glassworks in Poděbrady and designed blown and engraved glass for Škrdlovice Glassworks.
The glassworks was nationalised and fell under the Directorate of Arts and Crafts, but the original owners worked here as master glassmakers from the 1950s onwards and also realised very demanding designs by glass artists.
The possibilities of author's work in Škrdlovice changed radically after 1967, when František Vízner and Dana Vachtová came to the management as designers.
Žertová and Vachtová also began to use the sampling hours offered to artists by Crystalex in Nový Bor.
Jiřina Žertová's glass objects were realized by glass masters František Danielka, Josef Rozínek (Nový Bor glassworks) or Josef Kučera (Chřibská glassworks).
Since 2007 she has been a member of Mánes Union of Fine Arts.


Awards
1957 XI.
Trienale di Milano, Silver Medal
2004 International Exhibition of Glass Kanaza


Work
Jiřina Žertová is one of the glass artists who, in the context of Czech studio glass art, are most prominent in the field of painted glass.
During her studies, she focused mainly on painting and for the first three years on cut glass during her internship at the Moser glassworks in Karlovy Vary.
After graduating, she drew designs for Bohemia Glassworks in Poděbrady, which worked with lead cut glass.
She won her first international award for a set of cut glass in 1957.
In the 1950s, glass allowed much more creative freedom than other disciplines where socialist realism dominated.
Her creative career in working with glass developed in the 1960s, when she had the opportunity to realize designs for cast glass in the Škrdlovice glassworks.
Already the first works by Jiřina Žertová were carried in the spirit of unconventional solutions and retained the distinctive qualities of abstract artistic expression.
She uses colour as a meaning forming element, but her objects, when inspired by nature, are based primarily on the possibilities and specifics of the glass itself.
She also made her first larger objects of blown glass here, but she discovered new creative possibilities only after moving to the Borské sklo (later Crystalex) glasworks, where she was invited by František Danielka.
At the beginning of the author's truly original glass work in the second half of the 1970s was blown glass.
The rotational principle of shaping the glass while blowing it into a wooden mould influenced her work towards strictly geometric shapes, which she combined to emphasise the mutual tension and dynamics of the inner space.
Initially, the driving force behind her creativity was the sheer thrill of forming a dimensional bubble, which resulted in a fascinating object.
Interventions in it were limited to bending or simply denting the smoothly stretched shape.
She was interested in the artistic design of interior space and designed technically demanding blown objects with embedded elements.
However, Jiřina Žertová soon abandoned the sleekness of the form and imprinted various objects on glass.
She also began to use blowing into increasingly complex wooden and plaster moulds, which her husband Bedřich Žert helped her to make.
Contrary to the previous workshop practice, she also left the so-called "kicks" - the edges of the glass mass protruding outside the mould - as part of the objects.
These gave the elementally expanding mass a new dramatic expression in the modelling of shapes and in the structures of the surfaces.
She combined the harmony of the curves of the blown shapes with the treatment of their walls with a decoration of bubbles along with bold "painterly strokes" of strands of coloured glass.
Jiřina Žertová could not completely control the colour of her objects when working in the glassworks and worked partly with the element of randomness.
Therefore, in the 1980s, the artist emphasised the starkness of the shaping by expressive gestural painting interventions, the form of which eventually settled on a cast linear structure, enveloping the glass form in a colourful tangle and affecting the base as well.
The transformation of stimuli from concrete reality was not a fundamentally determining moment in their creation.
They arose freely, in the preoccupation with the creative thinking itself about the modelling of masses of glass form with light, about the interaction of sculptural forms with colour accents as an element of a different artistic language.
The culmination and the turning point in this series was the object Don't Ask Where We're Going from 1990.

In the early 1990s, Jiřina Žertová felt that she had exhausted her creative possibilities in blown objects.
The cooperation with the glassworks also became complicated during privatisation and with the arrival of new owners.
She found absolute freedom of creativity and independence in the application of the principle of layering painted flat glass.
The form of the artist's works is less dramatic in external form.
The seemingly immaterial prisms of layered panels do not expand into space, they enclose themselves.
The glass has become a building element, a carrier of the painted colour structure, a mediator of the visual variability of the whole object.
In its enclosed interior space, a volatile game is unfolding with colour and light variability, with the illusion of the tangible, with spatial magic, with the distortion of the logic of the object's construction by the reflections of mirrors.
Although it is again possible to see similarities with reality in the works, the connection is generally symbolic.
The often large-scale works can thus be approached primarily as a generous offer of an experience of an impressive play with multiplicity, with colour and structure, with something seen and yet elusive.
As the horizon shifts, illusory shapes and bodies appear and disappear again, lending the compositions the character of a mobile object.
This layering of flat glass in conjunction with gestural abstract painting has shifted the painting from defined spatial shapes to the third dimension and makes Jiřina Žertová's works unique even on an international scale.
In the decade after 2011, Jiřina Žertová began to work with compositions oriented towards height, where she managed to dynamise and undulate some objects by deviating them from the axis.
Objects composed of plate glass offer a range of visual effects - shapes can blend into each other, as well as shift in and out of view, and coloured painted surfaces seen in the foreground are added to those reflected by mirrors.
In this way, the artist has created a large number of charismatic works - complex spatial objects composed of flat glass.
The layers feature a rich swirl of colour structures, but also monochrome black or red lines combined with flat areas (Babylon, 2012).
In the objects created after 2013, she has also resolved the coherence of vertically arranged glasses and created several objects in which austere geometric shapes are applied.

In the authenticity of her artistic handwriting, Jiřina Žertová is still one of the most prominent figures of contemporary studio glass in the Czech Republic, and her works have a recognised position in the international context.


Design
Jiřina Žertová is the author of drinking glass, metallurgical glass shaped from free hand and designs of decors of cut lead glass.
She is also the author of several designs for architecture.


Representation in collections
Centre Pompidou, Paříž
Musée des Arts Décoratifs de la Ville, Lausanne
The Corning Museum of Glass, New York
Jacques Baruch Gallery, Chicago
The Lannan Foundation of Contemporary Arts, Palm Beach
Museum of Science and Industry, Los Angeles
Kunstsammlungen der Veste, Coburg
Kunstmuseum Düsseldorf
Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe Hamburg
Glasmuseum Ebeltoft
Kunstforum Göhrde
Steinberg Foundation, Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein
Muzeum Narodowe, Wroclaw
Museum of Decorative Arts in Prague
Moravian Gallery in Brno
North Bohemian Museum in Liberec
East Bohemian Museum in Pardubice
Museum of Glass and Jewellery in Jablonec nad Nisou
Crystalex Nový Bor
Cafesjian Art Trust in Shoreview, Minnesota, USA


Exhibitions


Solo
1973 Galerie Lobmeyer, Vienna
1975 North Bohemian Museum, Liberec
1982 Gallery Rob van den Doel, Gravenhage, Netherlands
1984, 1987 Galerie Centrum, Prague
1989 Heller Gallery, New York, Gallery Nakama, Tokyo
1990 Galerie Gottschalk-Betz, Frankfurt am Main, Clara Scremini Gallery, Paris, Galerie Sanske, Zürich
1992 Müller Gallery, New York, Silica gallery, Beverly Hills, Ca., USA
1994 The House at Jonáš, East Bohemia Gallery in Pardubice
1998 Bender-Boehringer - Zentrum, Vienna
1999 Gallery of Fine Arts in Ostrava
2001 Gallery of Fine Arts Znojmo
2005 Glasgalerie Hittfeld, Hamburg
2006 Leo Kaplan Modern, New York
2008 Galerie Aspekt, Brno
2013 Jiřina Žertová, Vladimír Kopecký: Convergence, East Bohemia Gallery Pardubice
2014 Nová síň Gallery, Prague
2017 Špilberk Gallery, Brno


Collective (selection)
1984 Modern Czechoslovak Glass Sculptures, Copenhagen, Contemporary Glass in Europe, Strasbourg
1985 Coburger Glaspreis, Coburg, Glassymposium Süssmuth
1986 Contemporary Czech Glass, London, Birmingham, Modern International Glass Art, Ebeltoft, DK, Tchechoslowakisch Glas in Austria, Wien, Salzburg
1987 Vidre D art, Asuntament de Barcelona, Czech Cultural Centre Warszawa, Wien
1988 Artistes Verries de Tchécoslovaquie, Bruxelles, Kopecký + Freunde, Frankfurt am Main
1989 Contemporary European Crystal and Glass Sculptures, Liége, 18 Verriers Tcheque aux Musée Suisse du Vitrail, Romont, Verres de Boheme, Musée des Arts Décoratifs, Paris, Verriers Tcheque aux Centre International du Vitrail, Chartres
1990 International Exhibition of Glass, Kanazawa, Japan, Neues Glas in Europa, Düsseldorf
1991 Configura, Kunst in Europe, Erfurt, Prague Glas Prize, Mánes, Praha
1992 Prague Glass Prize, Heller Gallery, New York
1993 Bohemia Crystal, Segovia
1994 Glass of the 20th century, Museum of East Bohemia in Pardubice, Prager Glaskunst, Bamberg
1996 International Glass Exhibition, Palazzo Ducale, Venezia
1997 Glaskunst aus Tchechien, Wien
1999 Exhibition: Czech Glass, China
2000 Light - Transfigured, Hida Takayama Museum of Art, Gifu, Japan, Euro - Fire in the Land of Liége
2001 Sensitive Touch, Studio Glass Gallery, London
2001-2011 Verrailes, Galerie Internationale du Verre, Biot, France
2003, 2006, 2012 International Glass Symposium, Crystalex, Nový Bor
2004 International Exhibition of Glass, Kanazawa, Japan, Leo Kaplan Modern, New York
2005 Expo 2005, Aichi, Japan
2007 Czech Glass / 1945-1980 (Creation in the Age of Misery and Illusion), National Gallery in Prague
2009 Crossing borders, Glasmuseet Ebeltoft, Glass Friends in Contemporary Glass Sculpture, Litvak gallery, Tel Aviv, Mánes Union of Fine Arts (1887 - 2009), Berlin, Bratislava
2010 New Sensitivity, National Art Museum of China, Beijing, Mánes Union of Fine Arts, Diamant Gallery, Prague
2011 Freedom to Create, Litvak Gallery, Tel Aviv
2012 Jubilants of Mánes, Diamant Gallery, Prague
2012/13 Happy Birthday!
Czech Glass Art, Museum of Decorative Arts in Prague
2018/2019 Two in One: Czech and Slovak Glass Design 1918-2018, Museum of Glass and Jewellery in Jablonec nad Nisou
2019/2020 Melting Edge, Portheimka Museum of Glass, Prague
2020 S.V.U.
Mánes, Rabas Gallery, Nová síň pod Vysokou bránou, Rakovník
2021 Generation S.V.U.
Mánes, St.
Anne's Church, Jablonec nad Nisou


References


Sources
monographs
Klára Jirková (ed.), Jiřina Žertová: Not Only Glass, 242 p., nakl.
KAVKA, Prague 2022, ISBN 978-80-90-908575-0-6
catalogues
Stehlík František, Jiřina Žertová: Glass Definitions, cat.
24 p., North Bohemian Museum Liberec 1975
Jiřina Žertová: Glass, author unknown, cat.
6 p., ČFVU Dílo, Prague 1987
Křen Ivo, Jiřina Žertová, cat.
16 p., Gallery of Fine Arts in Ostrava 2000
Rossini Pavla, Jiřina Žertová: Selected works 1979-2012, cat.
54 p., English, private print, also Neues Glass 2012
Křen Ivo, Bouček Vít, Convergence: Jiřina Žertová, Vladimír Kopecký, East Bohemian Museum in Pardubice 2013, ISBN 978-80-85112-74-0
collective publications
Šindelář Dušan, Contemporary Art Glass in Czechoslovakia, 112 p., Obelisk, Prague, 1970
Adlerová Kudělková Königová Alena, Contemporary Glass, 71 p., Odeon, Prague, 1979 (English edition)
Ricke Helmut, Neues Glas in Europa.
50 Künstler, 50 Konzepte, Düsseldorf 1990
Langhamer Antonín, Legenda o českém skle / The Legend of Bohemian Glass / Legende vom böhmischen Glas, 292 p., TIGRIS spol.
s r.
o., Zlín, 1999, ISBN 80-86062-02-3
Petrová Sylva, Czech Glass, 283 p., (awarded as the most beautiful book of 2001), Gallery, Prague, 2001, ISBN 80-86010-44-9
Křen Ivo, Permanent Exhibition of Czech Glass, East Bohemian Museum in Pardubice 2006, ISBN 80-86046-91-5
articles
Kohoutová Marie, On first and second place - and also on missed chances and changes in the passage of time with Jiřina Žertová, Glassrevue 16, 2003, pp.
3–4
encyclopedia
New Encyclopedia of Czech Visual Art, ed.
Horová Anděla, Academia Praha, 1995, ISBN 80-200-0522-6
Dictionary of Czech and Slovak Visual Artists, ed.
Malá Alena, Chagall Art Centre, Ostrava, 2010, ISBN 978-80-86171-35-7


External links

The Work of Jiřina Žertová
Information system abART: Žertová Jiřina
Diamant exhibition, ČRO Vltava, 2014
(min.17,40- 23,20) exhibition Nová síň, ČRO Vltava, 2014
Litvak Gallery: Jiřina Žertová Archived 6 October 2014 at the Wayback Machine
Ivo Křen, Glass by Jiřina Žertová, Sanquis 2001, no.
16, p.
48

Mobile Barracks of High Command
In the Republic of China between 1912 and 1949, a Mobile Barracks of High Command (Chinese: 行轅; pinyin: Xíngyuán) was a government regional special office opened on behalf of the military supreme commander in a particular region, where there was a high-ranking government or military official as the regional representative of the supreme commander in chief.
The term was in use since the time of ancient China.
Generally speaking, a Mobile Barracks of High Command would have the operational authority over the affairs of military, civilians, and Nationalist Party within its area of responsibility, if it was military-related.
For example, He Yingqin, a four-star army general of ROC, was once the director of Mobile Barracks of High Command at Chongqing.
His official title was, in fact, "Director of Mobile Barracks of the Chairman of the National Government Office at Chongqing." Simply put: He spoke for the Chairman of the National Government of Republic of China in the great area of Chongqing.
He was, de facto and de juro, the military governor over several provinces west of Sichuan (included).
Hence, the director of Mobile Barracks of High Command functioned as a provincial governor in the Qing Dynasty.
In wartime, due to military considerations, the Director of Mobile Barracks would take over the administrative power of civil affairs and therefore also known as military general governor.
Similarly, there were other Mobile Barracks of High Command  at northeast China, Xifeng, Xichang, Guangzhou, and so on.
Equivalently, another kind of regional special office, "Forward Command Camp of the Chief of the National Military Council" would be in charge of the operational planning and command functions in its administrative district.


References

Air displacement pipette
Piston-driven air displacement pipettes are a type of micropipette, which are tools to handle volumes of liquid in the microliter scale.
They are more commonly used in biology and biochemistry, and less commonly in chemistry; the equipment is susceptible to damage from many organic solvents.


Operation

These pipettes operate by piston-driven air displacement.
A vacuum is generated by the vertical travel of a metallic or ceramic piston within an airtight sleeve.
The upward movement of the piston, driven by the depression of the plunger, creates a vacuum in the space left vacant by the piston.
To fill the vacuum, air from the tip rises, which is then replaced by the liquid that is drawn up into the tip and thus available for transport and dispensing elsewhere.
Sterile technique prevents liquid from coming into contact with the pipette itself.
Instead, the liquid is drawn into and dispensed from a disposable pipette tip that is discarded after transferring fluid and a new pipette tip is used for the next transfer.
Depressing the tip ejector button removes the tip, that is cast off without being handled by the operator and disposed of safely in an appropriate container.
This also prevents contamination of or damage to the calibrated measurement mechanism by the substances being measured.
The plunger is depressed to both draw up and dispense the liquid.
Normal operation consists of depressing the plunger button to the first stop while the pipette is held in the air.
The tip is then submerged in the liquid to be transported and the plunger is released in a slow and even manner.
This draws the liquid up into the tip.
The instrument is then moved to the desired dispensing location.
The plunger is again depressed to the first stop, and then to the second stop, or 'blowout', position.
This action will fully evacuate the tip and dispense the liquid.
In an adjustable pipette, the volume of liquid contained in the tip is variable; it can be changed via a dial or other mechanism, depending on the model.
Some pipettes include a small window which displays the currently selected volume.
The plastic pipette tips are designed for aqueous solutions, and are not recommended for use with organic solvents that may dissolve the plastics of the tips or even the pipettes.


Main parts of a micropipette
Plunger button
Tip ejector button
Volume adjustment dial
Digital volume indicator
Shaft
Attachment point for a disposable tip


Models
Several different type of air displacement pipettes exist:

adjustable or fixed
volume handled
Single-channel or multi-channel or repeater
adjustable tip spacing
conical tips or cylindrical tips
standard or locking
manual or electronic
manufacturer


Adjustable or fixed volume
Micropipettes can take a minimum volume of 0.2 μL and maximum volume of 10,000 μL (10 mL).
They thus are used for smaller-scale transfers than equipment such as graduated pipettes, which come in 5, 10, 25 and 50 mL volumes.
The most common type of pipettes can be set to a certain volume within its operational range and are called adjustable.
These pipettes commonly have a label with their volume range like "10–100 μL".
These limits are indeed the limits as overwinding these limits would result in damage of the pipetting system.
The fixed volume pipette cannot be changed.
As there are less moving parts, the mechanism is less complex, resulting in more accurate volume measurement.

The first known adjustable air displacement micropipette dates back to as early as 1877 (photograph shown at right), but in 1972, several people of the University of Wisconsin–Madison (mainly Warren Gilson and Henry Lardy) enhanced the fixed-volume pipette, developing the modern pipette with a variable volume.
Warren Gilson founded Gilson Inc.
based on this invention.


Volume

For optimal usage, every pipette supplier offers a broad range of different capacities, commonly including 2, 10, 20, 100, 200, and 1000 μL capacity pipettes.
A small volume range of a pipette like 10–100 μL results in a much higher accuracy than a broad range from 0.1–1,000 μL per pipette.
With regard to the volume transferred, the smallest pipette that can handle the required volume should be selected.
This is important because accuracy decreases when the set volume is close to the pipette's minimum capacity.
Generally, a pipette has optimal accuracy from 35-100% of its nominal volume, and should not be used below 10% of that volume.
For example, using a 1,000 μl pipette for 50 μl of liquid is not ideal, and using a 100 μl pipette will give better results.
Other factors like tip angle and immersion depth may also impact accuracy substantially.
Other methods may be necessary, like reverse pipetting for viscous liquids, or saturating the air inside a pipette with liquid vapor by pipetting up and down multiple times to "prime" the pipette before actually transferring liquid when pipetting a volatile liquid.


Tips
For the pipetting process there are two components necessary: The pipette and disposable tips.
The tips are plastic-made tools for single-use.
In general, they are made of Polypropylene.
Depending on the size of the pipette, the user needs specific tip sizes like: 10 μL, 100 μL, 200 μL, 1,000 μL, other non-standard sizes, such as 5,000 μL (5 mL) or 10,000 μL (10 mL).
The majority of tips have a color code for easy spotting like natural (colorless) for low volumes (0.1–10 μL), yellow (10–100 μL), or blue (100–1,000 μL).
The corresponding pipette has the same color code, printed on the pipette.
For special applications, there are filter-tips available.
These tips have a little piece of foam plastic in the upper conus to prevent sample aerosols contaminating the pipette.
In general, all tips are stored in 8 × 12 boxes for 96 pieces in an upright position.
The spacing of tips in these boxes is usually standardised for multichannel pipette compatibility from a number of different suppliers.

Two major tip systems exist, called conical or cylindrical, depending on the shape of the contact point of the pipettes and the tip.


Single-channel and multi-channel pipettes
Depending on the number of pistons in a pipette, there is a differentiation between single-channel pipettes and multi-channel pipettes.
For manual high-throughput applications like filling up a 96-well microtiter plate most researchers prefer a multi-channel pipette.
Instead of handling well by well, a row of 8 wells can be handled in parallel as this type of pipette has 8 pistons in parallel.


Adjustable tip spacing pipettes
Some manufacturers offer adjustable tip spacing pipettes.
These allow to transfer multiple samples in parallel between different labware formats.


Electronic pipettes
To improve the ergonomics of pipettes by reducing the necessary force, electronic pipettes were developed.
The manual movement of the piston is replaced by a small electric motor powered by a battery.
Whereas manual pipettes need a movement of the thumb (up to 3 cm), electronic pipettes have a main button.
The programming of the pipette is generally done by a control wheel and some further buttons.
All settings are displayed on a small display.
Electronic pipettes can decrease the risk of RSI-type injuries.


Repeaters
Repeaters are specialized pipettes, optimized for repeated working steps like dispensing several times a specific volume like 20 μL from a single aspiration of a larger volume.
In general, they have specific tips which do not fit on normal pipettes.
Some electronic pipettes are able to perform this function using standard tips.


Locking mechanism
Some air displacement pipettes can additionally feature a locking mechanism (referred to as "locking pipettes") to allow better changing of volume yet preserving accuracy.
By locking the set volume while performing several identical pipetting actions, accidental changes to the pipette volume setting are avoided.
The lock mechanism is typically a mechanical toggle close to the pipette setting controls that interferes with the setting mechanism to prevent movement.
Some pipettes, however, feature dials for setting the individual volume digits that can only be adjusted when unlocked by depressing and twisting the plunger.

 


Calibration
For sustained accuracy and consistent and repeatable operation, pipettes should be calibrated at periodic intervals.
These intervals vary depending on several factors:

The skill and training of the operators.
Skilled operators tend to operate the instrument more correctly and make fewer accuracy-robbing mistakes.
The liquid dispensed by the pipette.
Corrosive and volatile liquids tend to emit vapors which ascend into the pipette shaft even under proper operating conditions and may corrode the metal piston and springs, or the seals and o-rings that provide an air-tight seal between the piston and the surrounding sleeve.
Proper and careful handling.
Pipettes that are frequently dropped, are subjected to careless handling or horseplay, or that are not properly stored in a vertical position, will tend to degrade in accuracy over time.
The accuracy required by the instrument.
Applications requiring maximum accuracy also demand more frequent calibration.
Instruments used for purely research applications or in educational settings generally require less frequent calibration.
Under average conditions, most pipettes can be calibrated semi-annually (every six months) and provide satisfactory performance.
Institutions that are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration's GMP/GLP regulations generally benefit from quarterly calibration, or every three months.
Critical applications may require monthly service, while research and educational institutions may need only annual service.
These are general guidelines and any decision on the appropriate calibration interval should be made carefully and include considerations of the pipette in question (some are more reliable than others), the conditions under which the pipette is used, and the operators who use it.
Calibration is generally accomplished through means of gravimetric analysis.
This entails dispensing samples of distilled water into a receiving vessel perched atop a precision analytical balance.
The density of water is a well-known constant, and thus the mass of the dispensed sample provides an accurate indication of the volume dispensed.
Relative humidity, ambient temperature, and barometric pressure are factors in the accuracy of the measurement, and are usually combined in a complex formula and computed as the Z-factor.
This Z-factor is then used to modify the raw mass data output of the balance and provide an adjusted and more accurate measurement.
The colorimetric method uses precise concentrations of colored water to affect the measurement and determine the volume dispensed.
A spectrophotometer is used to measure the color difference before and after aspiration of the sample, providing a very accurate reading.
This method is more expensive than the more common gravimetric method, given the cost of the colored reagents, and is recommended when optimal accuracy is required.
It is also recommended for extremely low-volume pipette calibration, in the 2 microliter range, because the inherent uncertainties of the gravimetric method, performed with standard laboratory balances, becomes excessive.
Properly calibrated microbalances, capable of reading in the range of micrograms (10−6 g) can also be used effectively for gravimetric analysis of low-volume micropipettes, but only if environmental conditions are under strict control.
Six-place balances and environmental controls dramatically increase the cost of such calibrations.


Additional images


References

Paraglaciecola polaris
Paraglaciecola polaris (syn.
Glaciecola polaris)  is a strictly aerobic and facultative oligotrophic bacterium from the genus of Paraglaciecola which has been isolated from seawater from the Arctic Ocean.


Structure
It is gram negative, rod shaped and motile with the distinct characteristics of budding and peritrichous prosthecae.
Budding can occur on the surface of the cell and/or on the prosthecae.
The presence of the branched prosthecae, has an increased surface to volume ratio, so that it can maximize nutrient uptake, due to the low nutrient availability in the polar seas.
Lastly, G.
polaris has a fatty acid profile similar to other genera to include Alteromonas, Pseudoalteromonas and Glaciecola.


Genetics
The 16S rRNA gene shows a 98% similarity to Glaciocola mesophila.
It has a G+C content of 44.1 mol% and genome size of 5.24 Mb.


Metabolism
The Arctic species can be cultured on Marine agar and R2A agar with NaCl.
It grows between 5 °C - 37 °C and up to 10% NaCl.
It is chemoheterotrophic and can utilize a number of nutrient sources including, but not limited to, glucose, mannitol, cellobiose, sucrose, maltose, galactose, fructose, trehalose, mannose, acetate, glycogen, dextrin, lactate, propionate, glutamate, and malate In addition, it hydrolyzes egg yolk, starch, aesculin, and DNA, but does not reduce nitrate.


References

Rashid Ali (singer)
Rashid Ali is a singer, guitarist, musician and composer, who first became known for the hit song Kabhi Kabhi Aditi from Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na.


Personal life
Born in Hyderabad, India and brought up in London, his father is a retired businessman and mother is a ghazal singer who trained with Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan.
Rashid's sensibility towards music has been multi-ethnic and diverse, and although he had basic training on the rhythm guitar for one year, he taught himself all aspects of playing the lead guitar and improvisation by listening to all genres of music, in particular Jazz fusion, Spanish and Latin music.
He never had any vocal lessons either and has a natural ability to sing.


Professional life
Rashid was spotted at a concert in London by A R Rahman.
He was then invited by A R Rahman to be a part of Unity of Light Concert where he performed a jazz centric fusion of 'Ooh La La La' and has been a regular feature of A R Rahman shows since then.
He started doing vocals for A R Rahman for the first time in Parthale Paravasam in 2002.
He has sung two songs in Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na which became chartbusters and earned him nominations for best playback male singer for Filmfare,Stardust, Star Screen Awards and Radio Mirchi Awards 2008/2009.
His recent hits are "Call Me Dil" and "Cry Cry" from Jhootha Hi Sahi.
He is also a guitarist by profession and is usually associated with Rahman in his film songs including playing guitar and singing Kabhi Kabhi Aditi ( also creating that special guitar line which was placed at the intro of the song), Ishq Ada Hai and most recently the steel string rhythm guitar on Call Me Dil song from Jhootha Hi Sahi.
Rashid has finished working on his own debut album titled 'Call Me Rashid' which will introduce some original music.
The album has been produced by A R Rahman under his own label KM Music.
The music has been composed and arranged by Rashid Ali.
Bollywood actress Tabu is making her debut in a music video through this album.
The first taster preview of the album with a duet with Rashid and a singer from Dhaka Bangladesh, Faria Chaudhary, was posted on A R Rahman's Facebook page on 22 December 2010.
The clip was from an adapted Hindi version of the song Ayriliq meaning Separation, a traditional folk song from Azerbaijan.
Rashid's Album titled "Call Me Rashid" has been launched by Artist Aloud (Headed by Hungama Digital Media Ltd) on 28 November 2011.
Samples of the song have also been posted on the main website KM Musiq as well as on www.artistaloud.com.
The live performance broadcast of the launch has been released on YouTube along with the album which is available currently downloadable online and the CD of the album on T-Series will be available by the end of February 2012 across music stores in India.
He has also sung the song "Sun Lo Zara" with Shreya Goshal and Timmy for the film 'Ek Deewana Tha' which released in February 2012.
On 1 November 2012, he performed with A R Rahman in Bhopal, India in celebration of the foundation of Madhya Pradesh.
In 2013, Rashid has decided to position himself in Mumbai a lot more and shortly after arriving in India recorded a romantic number for another film soundtrack composed by A R Rahman entitled, "Raanjhanaa".
The song is his first duet with Neeti Mohan entitled, "Nazar Laaye" and the film was released on 21 June 2013.
In response to people loving the song, "Nazar Laaye" which featured the voices of Rashid Ali and Neeti Mohan, Rashid got to work to write a special single featuring Neeti Mohan called "Tu Hai (Autumn Love)" on which he played all the instruments and produced it.
This was released in December 2013 and is available as a Free Download exclusively from Rashid's website, www.rashidali.com.
In November 2014, Rashid has launched his own Digital Interactive YouTube Video Content Venture Called " Rashid's Jam Room", where he shows off his Solo Guitar skills, his voice as well as collaborations with New and Recognised Artists.The first unique video launched was a one take in 10 different styles on solo Acoustic Guitar version of a version of Hotel California which received rave reviews not only because of this version was largely improvised but for the first time ever featured Rashid playing this version in 10 different genres in one single take.
Rashid also has a dedicated space in this venture to discuss techniques and tips for the Guitar.
The Jam Room will continue into 2015 with lots more coming.
In 2015, Rashid collaborated with
One of the most respected sitarists, Niladri Kumar releasing 
His own explosive and energetic instrumental composition, “Head to the Heart”, a high paced original jugalbandi between the Acoustic Guitar and the Zitar.


Discography


References


External links
Rashid Ali at IMDb

Tommaso Oxilia
Tommaso Oxilia (born April 22, 1998) is an Italian professional basketball player for Virtus Pallacanestro Bologna.


Professional career
A product of A.S.D.
Basket Loano, Oxilia joined the youth ranks of Virtus Pallacanestro Bologna in 2013.
He made his debut in Italy's top flight Lega Basket Serie A during the 2013-14 season.
In 2016-17, Oxilia made 29 appearances for Bologna, averaging 3.1 points a contest, helping the squad capture the Serie A2 Basket championship after being relegated from the Serie A the year before.


National team career
Oxilia competed with Italy's junior national team at the under-16 European Championship in 2014, and he won a bronze medal with the Italian under-18 national team at the 2016 U18 European Championship.
In July 2017, he was influential in helping Italy;s junior national team win a silver medal at the FIBA U19 World Cup in Egypt, while leading the team in scoring (12.9 points per game) and rebounding (8.0 rebounds per game) throughout the tournament.
He was named to the tournament's All-Star-Five.


References


External links
Virtus profile
Italhoop.it profile
Fiba.com profile

Tomás Gutiérrez Ramírez
Tomás Gutiérrez Ramírez (born 21 December 1969) is a Mexican politician from the National Action Party (PAN).

He served as a local deputy in the Congress of Guanajuato from 2006 to 2009 and, 
in the 2003 mid-terms, he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies 
to represent Guanajuato's 8th district during the 61st session of Congress.


References

Isao Arita
Isao Arita (蟻田 功, Arita Isao; 1926 – 17 March 2023) was a Japanese physician, virologist and vaccination specialist who headed the World Health Organization (WHO) Smallpox Eradication Unit in 1977–85.
During this period, smallpox became the first infectious disease of humans to be eradicated globally.
He and his colleagues were awarded the Japan Prize in 1988 for this work.
He also advised the successful programme to eradicate poliovirus from the Western Pacific region.


Education and early career
Arita was born in Kumamoto, southern Japan, in 1926.
After gaining his medical degree from Kumamoto Medical School in 1950, he spent a decade working for the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare as a medical officer in the Infectious Disease Control section.
For part of this time he worked on vaccine control and standardisation, an area in which he received training at the Paul Ehrlich Institute in Germany.


Smallpox eradication programme
Arita's work for the WHO smallpox eradication programme started in 1962.
He spent around 2 years working on eradication in Liberia, Africa.
When American epidemiologist Donald A.
Henderson joined the programme in 1966, Arita was the only remaining WHO technical staff member.
He was a part of the WHO Smallpox Eradication Unit from its inception in 1966, serving as its deputy director under Henderson's leadership.
He was responsible for developing the programme's "surveillance and containment" strategy (which replaced the unsuccessful strategy of attempting to vaccinate at least 80% of the population), as well as for increasing the supply of smallpox vaccine used by the eradication programme, and for monitoring and improving vaccine quality.
He also undertook research into poxviruses, particularly monkeypox virus.
After Henderson left WHO in 1976 or 1977, Arita went on to direct the unit.
Under his leadership an outbreak of variola minor in the Horn of Africa during the Ethiopian–Somali war was successfully contained, and the final case of naturally transmitted smallpox occurred in October 1977.
He administered the process by which smallpox was formally certified by WHO as having been eradicated globally in May 1980.
After certification, he managed the implementation of the certifying commission's recommendations.
He continued to direct the unit's international surveillance activities.
He was also involved in formulating policies on issues including ongoing vaccination and laboratory stocks of variola virus, and in archiving WHO's data on the eradication programme.
In 1999, he was one of several scientists to argue for the destruction of the remaining stocks of variola virus.
Arita was one of the lead authors, with Frank Fenner and Henderson, of the WHO publication Smallpox and its Eradication, an exhaustive 1460-page volume which was published in January 1988.
Arita also wrote his own personal account in the 2010 book, The Smallpox Eradication Saga.
An Insider's View.


Later career
In 1985, Arita left WHO to direct the Kumamoto National Hospital in Japan, a position he retained until his retirement in 1992.
He advised Morihiro Hosokawa (then governor of the Kumamoto prefecture) on the foundation of the Agency for Cooperation in International Health (ACIH) in 1990, and became its chair in 1993.
The ACIH aims to promote disease prevention in developing countries, and the body has organised international conferences on vaccines and other topics.
In the early 1990s, Arita called international attention to the issues surrounding the supply of vaccines and vaccine quality in developing countries, and advocated for these countries to move towards being self-sufficient in vaccine production.
From 1990 until 2004, he chaired the Technical Advisory Group to WHO's Expanded Programme on Immunization and Poliomyelitis Eradication in the Western Pacific Region.
The programme was successful in eradicating wild poliovirus from this region in 1997.
He also served on the expert committee that certified the eradication of wild poliovirus from North and South America in 1997.
Despite these regional successes, the global eradication of polio – planned for 2000 – has yet to be achieved.
In 2006, with Fenner and Miyuki Nakane, Arita published an opinion piece in the journal Science that questioned whether it was feasible to eradicate polio globally, and suggested that control might be a preferable option.
Arita also published on severe acute respiratory syndrome, measles, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and other viral diseases.


Death
Arita died on 17 March 2023, at the age of 96.


Awards and honours
In 1988, Arita, together with Henderson and Fenner, was awarded the Japan Prize – considered the Japanese equivalent of the Nobel Prize – for his work on smallpox eradication.
The Japanese government conferred on him the title of "national treasure".


Selected publications

Books

Isao Arita.
The Smallpox Eradication Saga.
An Insider's View (Orient Longman; 2010)
Frank Fenner, Donald A.
Henderson, Isao Arita, Zdenek Jezek, Ivan Danilovich Ladnyi.
Smallpox and its Eradication (WHO; 1988) (downloadable at [2])
Articles

Arita Isao (2011).
"A personal recollection of smallpox eradication with the benefit of hindsight: in commemoration of 30th anniversary" (PDF).
Japanese Journal of Infectious Diseases.
64 (1) 64.1: 1–6.
doi:10.7883/yoken.64.1.
PMID 21266748.
S2CID 22891761.
Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-05-17.
Retrieved 2016-08-24.
Isao, Arita; Miyuki, Nakane; Frank, Fenner (2006).
"Is Polio Eradication Realistic?".
Science.
312 (5775): 852–54.
doi:10.1126/science.1124959.
PMID 16690846.
S2CID 70645256.
Breman Joel G., Arita Isao (1980).
"The Confirmation and Maintenance of Smallpox Eradication".
New England Journal of Medicine.
303 (22): 1263–73.
doi:10.1056/nejm198011273032204.
PMID 6252467.


See also
Koyama Shisei


References

Sources

Frank Fenner.
Nature, Nurture and Chance: The Lives of Frank and Charles Fenner (ANU E Press; 2006) (ISBN 1920942637)
William Muraskin.
The Politics of International Health: The Children's Vaccine Initiative and the Struggle to Develop Vaccines for the Third World (SUNY Press; 1998) (ISBN 0791440001)
Jonathan B.
Tucker.
Scourge: The Once and Future Threat of Smallpox (Grove Press; 2001) (ISBN 0802139396)
Franklin White, Lorann Stallones, John M.
Last.
Global Public Health: Ecological Foundations (Oxford University Press; 2013) (ISBN 0199876991)

Stone High School (Mississippi)
Stone High School is a public high school located in Wiggins, Mississippi, United States.
It is the only high school in the Stone County School District.


History
Prior to federally mandated integration in 1969, Stone County maintained separate schools for white students and black students.
Stone High School served the white students, while Stone County Training School, built in 1955 and renamed W.P.
Locker High School in 1959, served African-American students.
After integration, Locker became Stone Middle School.
Locker's principal, Needham Jones, a former Tuskegee airman, was demoted to assistant principal at Stone Middle, although he was more qualified than the white principal at Stone High.
Jones sued and won, but retired rather than take the position of principal at Stone High.
In 2016, a group of white students at Stone High put a noose around a black student's neck.
Local law enforcement discouraged the student's family from filing a report.
The student was disciplined by the school and removed from the football team by coach John Feaster, the school's first African-American coach in any sport.
In 2016, 75% of the school's 800 students were white.
A 2017 report showed that white students were 3.2 times more likely to be in an AP class than black students, and that black students were 3 times more likely to be disciplined than white students.


Notable alumni
Chris Boykin, television personality
Sammy Brown, professional football player
D.J.
Davis, professional baseball player
Justin Evans, professional football player
Marcus Hinton, professional football player
Rebekah Jones, data scientist and geographer
Fred Lewis, professional baseball player
Stevon Moore, professional football player


Notable faculty
Ode Burrell, professional football player, coached at Stone High


References


External links

Official website

Danny Weis
Danny Weis (pronounced ; born September 28, 1948) is an American guitarist, best known as a founding member of both Iron Butterfly and Rhinoceros, as well as co-writer of Rhinoceros's only charting single, "Apricot Brandy".
Though he left Iron Butterfly after only one album due to internal tensions, his work was an influence in the band for most of their history, since his replacement Erik Brann made a conscious effort to imitate his playing.
Weis later recounted "Erik Braunn replaced me in Iron Butterfly, and if I remember correctly, he bought a lot of my equipment, some of my clothes, they tried to clone me basically..."
Weis appeared on Iron Butterfly's first two singles, "Don't Look Down On Me" and "Possession", and their debut LP Heavy.
In addition, the later album Live included a performance of "You Can't Win", a song from Heavy for which Weis wrote the music.
After leaving Iron Butterfly, Weis became a founding member of Rhinoceros and played on all three of their albums.
"Apricot Brandy", an instrumental he co-wrote with Rhinoceros keyboardist Michael Fonfara, reached No.
46 on the Billboard Hot 100 and has been used as background music on a number of TV shows.
After Rhinoceros disbanded in 1970, Weis briefly served as a member of The Rascals.
He then reunited with several fellow members of Rhinoceros to form the band Blackstone, which broke up after one commercially unsuccessful album.
In 1974 Weis played lead guitar on Lou Reed's Sally Can't Dance album and on the subsequent world tour.
In 1979 Weis appeared as the Band Leader and Guitarist of "The Rose Band" in the movie The Rose with Bette Midler.
In December 2006, his debut solo album, an instrumental smooth jazz effort titled Sweet Spot, was released on Marshmellow Records.


References


External links
Danny Weis Official Website

Kentucky Utilities
Kentucky Utilities (KU) is based in Lexington, Kentucky, and provides electricity to 77 counties in Kentucky.
KU also serves five counties in Virginia under the name Old Dominion Power.
It is owned by LG&E and KU Energy, LLC, which, in turn, is owned by PPL Corporation.


History
Kentucky Utilities was formed in 1912 to serve five areas of Kentucky.
In 1926, KU acquired Old Dominion Power.
KU was acquired by LG&E Energy, parent of Louisville Gas & Electric, in 1998.
This combination was then acquired by British utility company Powergen in 2000, and ultimately Powergen was bought by German utility company E.ON in 2003.
E.ON renamed LG&E Energy as E.ON U.S.
In 2010, E.ON U.S.
was bought by PPL Corporation, who changed the name of the company to LG&E and KU Energy.
The use of the plural Utilities refers to the company's early sales mix of electricity and other utilities, including ice, which in its early days of mass-production, was made in some areas by electric utilities.
 The company still owns a 4-story structure on the northeast side of Lexington on Loudon Avenue known as the "Ice House".
 The facility was utilized for cold storage by Kentucky Utilities during the time when ice was part of its "Utilities" portfolio of offerings.
 The adjacent property on North Limestone Street utilized a power generation facility to provide DC (direct current) power for the city's trolley system in the early 1900s.
 This trolley system used the current rail line separating the two properties, which is now owned and operated by R.
J.
Corman Railroad.
KU's facilities include the coal-fired generating station E.
W.
Brown Power Station, near Burgin, Kentucky.
It sits adjacent to Lake Herrington, which was formed in 1926 by constructing Dix Dam, which contained hydro-electric generators.
The company's electric distribution dispatch was located in Lexington until the consolidation of Louisville (LG&E) and Lexington (KU) distribution dispatch centers in 2019.
 Legacy Kentucky Utilities power generation facilities include Pineville Station (located in Fourmile, KY) and Tyrone Station (located near Frankfort, KY).
 These facilities have been demolished as of early 2020.
 Other facilities include various Customer Business Office locations, Electric Distribution Operations Centers, Service Center and Storerooms scattered across the state and throughout the KU and ODP service territory.


Acquisition by PPL Corporation
PPL and E.ON announced on April 28, 2010, a definitive agreement under which PPL would acquire E.ON US, the parent company of KU and Louisville Gas & Electric, for $7.625 billion.
The sale was closed on November 1, 2010.


References


External links
LG&E and KU Energy Home Page

Oliver Freund
Oliver Freund (born 15 April 1970) is a German former professional footballer who played as a midfielder.


Career
Freund joined Werder Bremen's U19 youth team from FV Lörrach in 1989.


Honours
Werder Bremen (A)

German amateur football championship: 1990–91
Hannover 96

DFB-Pokal: 1991–92
SC Freiburg

2.
Bundesliga: 1992–93


References

Bituing Walang Ningning (film)
Bituing Walang Ningning (English: A Star Without Shine) is a 1985 Philippine musical drama film directed by Emmanuel Borlaza from a komiks serial written by Nerissa G.
Cabral and adapted into a screenplay by Orlando R.
Nadres.
The film stars Sharon Cuneta, Christopher de Leon, and Cherie Gil, with the supporting cast includes Tommy Abuel, Jay Ilagan, Joel Torre, and Chanda Romero.
Produced and distributed by Viva Films, it was theatrically released on February 14, 1985.
The film was digitally restored by Central Digital Lab, Inc.


Plot
Dorina Pineda (Sharon Cuneta), a sampaguita seller, is a devoted fan of singer Lavinia Arguelles (Cherie Gil), going to her concerts, even running on stage to give her flowers, and waiting outside her venues to see and talk to her.
Unbeknownst to her fans, Lavinia has an inflated ego and a cold and calculating personality that slowly drives away her boyfriend, Nico Escobar (Christopher de Leon).
One day, Dorina's singing talents are discovered and soon her idol becomes her industry rival, with Nico supporting and falling for Dorina.
After Lavinia calls Dorina "nothing but a second-rate, trying hard copycat" Dorina finally sees her idol for the flawed and bitter person she is.
As her star rises, Dorina becomes doubtful over whether she is delighted.
In the final scene, instead of going through with a concert showdown with Lavinia, Dorina announces that she is leaving show business and that this would be her last performance.
While singing "Bituing Walang Ningning", Dorina calls Lavinia on stage and passes the microphone to her, then gives her flowers the same way she had done when she was just a fan.
Dorina leaves Lavinia to continue singing on stage as she reunites with Nico.


Cast


Production
The film was the pet project of Mina Aragon, wife of Viva Films founder-executive producer Vic R.
Del Rosario Jr.


Casting
The role of Lavinia was offered to then up-and-coming singer Zsa Zsa Padilla as her film acting debut.
She declined due to her friendship with Sharon Cuneta.
Padilla would later star in the 2006 television adaptation as Dorina's mother, a character that does not exist in the film.


Filming
During filming, Sharon Cuneta, newly married to Gabby Concepcion, was pregnant with her first child, KC Concepcion.
The production crew made efforts to conceal her pregnancy, including using props and body doubles, as well as utilizing half-body shots.
Halfway through shooting, director Emmanuel Borlaza suffered a heart attack and was told to rest.
Leroy Salvador, who directed Cuneta in Sa Hirap at Ginhawa, also for Viva Films, was assigned to direct the unfinished sequences.
He asked not to be credited for his work.
The same year, Salvador directed Cuneta and Gil in another musical for Viva Films, Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas, released on July 30.
The iconic line "You're nothing but a second-rate, trying hard copycat." was originally written in the script as "You're nothing but a good imitator." The original line was later changed to its well-known one when Tommy Abuel suggested the word "copycat", which sounded "catchy" by Cherie Gil, who later added the phrase "trying hard".
The final scene, a concert showdown between Lavinia and Dorina, was filmed at the Metropolitan Theater.


Music
The theme song "Bituing Walang Ningning" was performed by Sharon Cuneta, with melody and lyrics written by Willy Cruz.


Release
The film was released in theaters on Valentine's Day in 1985.
At the 2019 QCinema International Film Festival, Bituing Walang Ningning was screened as part of a Viva Classics presentation in recognition of the Vic del Rosario, Jr.'s contributions to the Filipino film industry.
A Special Life Achievement Award was presented to Del Rosario at the festival.


Legacy
The line, "You are nothing but a second-rate, trying hard copycat!" spoken by Cherie Gil's character Lavinia Arguelles to Sharon Cuneta's Dorina Pineda, is considered iconic by Filipino culture critics.
It was used in both the television and stage adaptations, and has remained closely associated with Gil.
The film and the line established Gil as the Filipino film industry's "La Primera Contravida".
The lines "Balutin mo ako ng hiwaga ng iyong pagmamahal" (Wrap me in the magic of your love) in the film's theme song "Bituing Walang Ningning" also became famous in Filipino popular culture as a reference to the practice of act of taking home food from buffets and special occasions.
This also led to the creation of the Tagalog verb Mag-Sharon (To Sharon) in reference to the practice.


Adaptations
In 2006, the story was adapted as a primetime television drama of the same name by ABS-CBN starring Sarah Geronimo, Ryan Agoncillo, and Angelika de la Cruz.
During its run, it was the highest-rated television drama of ABS-CBN.
The final scene of the television drama was filmed as a special concert showdown in front of a live audience at Araneta Coliseum.
In 2015, an award-winning stage adaptation entitled "Bituing Walang Ningning: The Musical", written and directed by Freddie Santos, premiered at the Newport Performing Arts Theater at Resorts World Manila.
The original cast starred Cris Villonco, Mark Bautista, and Monica Cuenco.
The production featured 11 songs by Willy Cruz, including the film's original song "Bituing Walang Ningning".
It received seven awards, including the award for Best Musical Production, at the 28th Aliw Awards.


Sources


Notes


References


External links
Bituing Walang Ningning at IMDb

Smithson Tennant
Smithson Tennant FRS (30 November 1761 – 22 February 1815) was an English chemist.
He is best known for his discovery of the elements iridium and osmium, which he found in the residues from the solution of platinum ores in 1803.
He also contributed to the proof of the identity of diamond and charcoal.
The mineral tennantite is named after him.


Life
Tennant was born in Selby in Yorkshire.
His father was Calvert Tennant (named after his grandmother Phyllis Calvert, a granddaughter of Cecilius Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore).
His own name derives from his grandmother Rebecca Smithson, widow of Joshua Hitchling.
He attended Beverley Grammar School and there is a plaque over one of the entrances to the present school commemorating his discovery of the two elements, osmium and iridium.

He began to study medicine at Edinburgh in 1781, but after a few months moved to Cambridge, where he devoted himself to botany and chemistry.

He graduated M.D.
at Cambridge in 1796, and about the same time purchased an estate near Cheddar, where he carried out agricultural experiments.

He was appointed professor of chemistry at Cambridge in 1813, but lived to deliver only one course of lectures, being killed near Boulogne-sur-Mer by the fall of a bridge over which he was riding.


Legacy
In 2006, American Elements discovered new technology allowing for the casting of seamless iridium rings for use in spacecraft and satellites.
In 2016, the company utilized the same technology to introduce a line of iridium wedding bands marketed under the trademark Smithson Tennant.


Notes


References
This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
(1911).
"Tennant, Smithson".
Encyclopædia Britannica.
Vol.
26 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press.
Mary D.
Archer, Christopher D.
Haley.
The 1702 Chair of Chemistry at Cambridge.
Cambridge, 2005, ISBN 978-0-521-82873-4.
Harden, Arthur (1898).
"Tennant, Smithson" .
In Lee, Sidney (ed.).
Dictionary of National Biography.
Vol.
56.
London: Smith, Elder & Co.
Usselman, Melvyn C.
"Tennant, Smithson (1761–1815)".
Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.).
Oxford University Press.
doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/27134.
(Subscription, Wikipedia Library access or UK public library membership required.)


External links
 Works by or about Smithson Tennant at Wikisource
Osmium and Iridium Events Surrounding Their Discoveries Archived 20 April 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Passages from the life of a philosopher by Charles Babbage
The Early Life of Smithson Tennant FRS (1761–1815)
Iridium and Osmium Discovery – Periodic Table of Videos on YouTube

Zhang Dali
Zhang Dali (Chinese: 张大力, born 1963, in Harbin, China) is an artist based in Beijing.
Zhang trained at the Central Academy of Fine Arts and Design, where he graduated in 1987.
After his studies, he moved to Yuanmingyuan as a freelance artist (1987–1989) and started to show his works in independent exhibitions.
He spent the years 1990–1995 in Italy, where he came into contact with graffiti art.
He was the only graffiti artist in Beijing throughout the 1990s.
His works cross a multitude of techniques including painting, sculpture, photography, and installations.
In the four decades of his career his works were shown in more than 300 exhibitions all over the world.


Biography
From 1995 to 1998 he spray-painted over 2000 giant profiles of his own bald head on buildings throughout Beijing, placing the images alongside chāi (拆) characters painted by the city authorities to indicate that a building is scheduled for demolition.
The appearance of these images became the subject of media debate in Beijing in 1998.
He has shown work internationally in many exhibitions including the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York, International Center for Photography in New York City, Les Rencontres d'Arles festival in France (2010), 18Gallery in Shanghai, Magda Danysz Gallery in Paris, Courtyard Gallery in Beijing, Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, Kunstnernes Hus in Oslo, the 2006 Gwangju Biennale in Korea and Pékin Fine Arts in Beijing.
He is represented by Pékin Fine Arts in Beijing, Kiang Gallery in Atlanta, Klein Sun Gallery in New York City and Base Gallery in Tokyo.
In more recent years, his works were shown in large retrospective exhibitions such as: "From Reality to Extreme Reality" at the United Art Museum Archived 2021-12-02 at the Wayback Machine in Wuhan (2015), "Body and Soul" at Beelden aan Zee in The Hague (2017), "Meta-morphosis" at Palazzo Fava in Bologna (2018).


Main works


Human World Red, Black, and White Series
These paintings in red, black and white are executed with oil colors, typical of western art, but on vertical paper with the dimensions and shapes, typical of Chinese traditional scroll painting.
The subject is figurative, precise elements can be recognized, but at the same time not realistic.
It seems like the representation of a dream, of a spiritual aspiration, of harmony between the natural and human worlds.
The well-defined lines and the choice of colors refer to graphic art, which was also an essential part of Zhang's curriculum at the academy.

This series of oil on paper paintings are representative of Zhang Dali's last university years (1986–1987) and of his search for contamination between eastern and western art.
Zhang Dali has already decided that he wants to be a “contemporary artist” and not a Chinese traditional painting artist.
The education he received at the Central Academy of Fine Arts and Design in Beijing includes the study of European and Chinese classic art, and the study of the most influential movements of western art in the twentieth century, from Bauhaus to Pop Art." Formally, I have been deeply influenced by Wu Guanzhong.
I was shocked the first time I saw Wu’s paintings, he used red to paint green trees.
We were all shocked and thought he was colorblind.
We told him the tree was green and he replied: “The tree is green, but can’t we paint it with other colors?
You should paint with the color that expresses your inner most feelings.” It was then that I realized that the portrayal of natural setting landscapes and objects didn’t have to correspond to their actual form but could refer to my inner emotions.
"
Zhang Dali in conversation for Asia Art Archive, Contemporary Chinese Art from 1980 to 1990, 2000


Dialogue and Demolition
Zhang Dali's encounter with graffiti first occurred in Europe.
From 1989 to 1995, while he was living in Bologna, graffiti art presented itself as a means of dialogue between the artist and the people moving in the urban landscape.
His first graffiti were painted in Bologna, and other European cities: Vienna, Ljubljana, Berlin.
After returning to China in 1995, he witnessed the demolition of old alleys and neighborhoods, the forced relocation of the inhabitants and the propaganda to convince the citizens that “modernization” is good and necessary.
He then started to wander the streets by night, on his bicycle with a spray can, leaving on the walls condemned to demolition a head profile and his signature AK-47 and 18K.

In a project that will last a decade, Zhang Dali not only establishes a dialogue with the city's inhabitants, he also asks questions about the legitimacy of modernization, about the costs for the historical and cultural heritage, and the price of physical and psychological suffering.
His graffiti were the spark which became a great conflagration in the public debate on the significance, modes and finality of urban modernization.
With his graffiti, Zhang Dali turned into a public intellectual renown in China and all over the world.
" Urban expansion and its ambiguous spread fill us with excitement, unease and disquiet.
Each and every corner of the city is a chaotic mess.
Mounds of garbage are piling up and people eat, shit and sleep amongst the refuse.
Children look for toys in the debris.
River water runs ink black and stinks like hell, while plastic bags hang from tree branches and play catch on the grass, nodding and waving in the breeze like severed heads and hands.
Men in pressing business suits enter the main gates of fancy hotels, while rivers of filth run from the hotels’ rear.
"
Zhang Dali, Demolition – Continuing Dialogue, February 1998 in Zhang Dali, Wuhan United Art Museum Archived 2021-12-02 at the Wayback Machine 2015


AK-47
AK-47 is the name of an automatic rifle designed by Michail Kalashnikov, from whose name comes the abbreviation of AK (Avtomat Kalashnikova) and was produced for the first time in the Soviet Union in 1947.
All over the world, the name AK-47 has become a symbol of wars, insurrections and gang criminality.
Zhang Dali started to use this tag during the nineties in his graffiti as a synonym of the violence permeating the fast urbanization process.
From the year 2000, he started a series of portraits emerging from the chromatic contrast of "AK-47"s' shades.
The paintings are acrylic on vinyl, a material widely used for advertisement boards, a feature becoming an integral part of the Beijing’s urban landscape in those years.
The faces are copied from portrait photos Zhang Dali found in a pile of abandoned photo studio archives, sold in bulk at the flea market.
The acronym is not painted on the faces, but it is used to portray the faces themselves: violence is not “on” people, it is the very material with which people are made of, not a washable coating, but integral part and connecting tissue of their existence.


Slogan
This is a series of portraits emerging from the repetition and color shade contrast of Chinese characters, similar to the "AK-47", but now belonging to the slogans.
In the year preceding the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, the capital was invaded by gigantic banners and boards of government propaganda slogans.
Even though this feature has always been a part of Chinese urban and rural landscapes, so much so to become invisible to the passer-by eyes, in 2008 their presence was so ubiquitous to make Zhang Dali ponder on their meaning and on the subtle message implanted in people's head.
" In 2000 I started the series AK-47.
At the time I thought I was expressing the violence to which people are subjected to in society because of inequality.
The Slogan series is a continuation of AK-47, and it is also the result of my observation of our own surrounding society.
Our era is full of dramatic events and fast changes, in the main avenues and narrow alleys slogans are pervasive and ever changing.
These slogans are standard sentences taken from government documents that have come to dominate our public space.
Their aim is to educate us, tell us how we must behave just like a parent talking to an elementary school child – in the same way the parents of the People lecture their immature children.
"
Zhang Dali, Slogan Artist’s Statement, 2008


Chinese Offspring
Zhang Dali's research on human bodies as a collective depository of an era continues in this series of sculptures, cast in fiberglass from migrant workers.
From 2004 to 2010, he has reproduced the bodies of farmers coming into the city in search of work; they became the document of both a specific period in the history of urbanization and a migration of unimaginable proportion.
From the first exhibitions, the sculptures were hung upside down, to express the absence of control these people have on their lives.
The name Chinese Offspring demands us to reflect on the present condition of a People who had lost the values of the wise men and heroes of the past, a People reduced to a sub-human state, cogs in a machine on which they have no control on, lacking ideals and without a purpose that goes beyond daily subsistence.


A Second History
A Second History was created in a seven-year span, from 2004 to 2011.
Zhang Dali poses questions about the influence of new technologies on the visual mass culture and as a form of exercised power.
The research on the history of image manipulation takes him to collecting thousands of illustrated volumes, magazines, and newspapers from the years 1950s to 1980s.
He had access to the archives of some of the most known state publication houses, where he compared negative films and images published in those years.
This work consists of the archive created by Zhang Dali after seven years of researching and cataloging.
It is made of 133 panels, each comparing images as published with different manipulations and/or their original negative.
Image manipulation was born with photography itself.
All over the world images are manipulated, in China such practices have been particularly pervasive since the foundation of the People's Republic and is exposed in this work in its political and aesthetical significance.


World's Shadows
The cyanotype is a type of photogram, a photo produced without a camera.
It was invented by John Herschel in 1842 and quickly abandoned in favor of other more sophisticated photographic techniques.
The characteristics of the cyanotype attract Zhang Dali for two reasons: it can not be altered or manipulated; it captures the image in a specific instant and it cannot be reproduced.
The object and its shadow constitute an intrinsically bound couple and only in a precise instant.
Zhang Dali has experimented with large size cyanotypes covering subjects such as natural landscapes, vegetations, and human bodies.
This is one of the techniques the artist is still expanding and combining other materials.
" Shadows are very intriguing and differ greatly in form.
Besides shadows’ ability to prove existence of material objects, shadows also carry their own intrinsic value and existence, not only as a reproduction or copy of the world of material things, but also as a type of “anti-matter” marking the space material objects occupy under the sun.
The material world shapes and controls our nervous system, and can make us feel agitated and troubled.
When we keep calm and quiet we realize that the world under our control is only a small part of the universe, certainly not the whole.
The shadows I document exist only for a very short time but through the photogram technique I capture them, so they can exist for a much longer time, in front of our eyes, and under our gaze.
"

Zhang Dali, World’s Shadows, Artist’s Statement, 2011 


Permanence
These sculptures in white marble (hanbaiyu) created in 2015 and 2016, represent a new stage of research and elaboration on the relevance of the human body as representative of a society and its dominant ideology.
Bodies of common people, migrant laborers are shown to the public as classical statues made of marble, material associated to deities and heroes of the past.
In this new form, they transmigrate from impermanence to permanence, at the same time detaching from their daily reality of ignorance and suffering.
Zhang Dali captures the spark of eternity presented in the life of each and every person.
It is not the appanage granted to royals and nobles, Sublimity exists in everyone and transforms the bodies into monuments.


Exhibition history


Solo exhibitions
 2019

"Zhang Dali per Fondantico", Fondanatico, Bologna, Italy

2018
"Meta-morphosis", Palazzo Fava, Bologna, Italy
"AK-47 Di Zhang Dali", Art City, S.
Giorgio in Poggiale, Bologna, Italy
"Monumental Nature", Pékin Fine Arts, Beijing, China
"Beside City!
Be Cityside!", Hefei Financial Harbor, Hefei, China

2017
“Body and Soul”, Beelden aan Zee, The Hague, Holland

2016
“Permanence and Impermanence – New Works by Zhang Dali”, Beijing Minsheng Art Museum, Beijing, China

2015
“Zhang Dali – World’s Shadows”, Ludwisburg Kunstverein, Ludwisburg, Germany
“A Second History”, MACBA - Museum of Contemporary Art Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina
“Under the Sky”, Pékin Fine Arts Gallery, Hong Kong, China
“From Reality to Extreme Reality - Zhang Dali Retrospective Research Exhibition”, United Art Museum, Wuhan, China

2014
"Square," Klein Sun Gallery, New York, NY
“Square”, K Space, Chengdu, China
“Zhang Dali-permanent exhibition”, Automne Galerie, Bruxelles, Belgium
2013
“Second History”, Luxun Academy of Fine Arts Museum, Shenyang, China
2012
“Zhang Dali Retrospective”, Klein Sun Gallery, New York, NY
2011
“World’s Shadows”, Pékin Fine Arts, Beijing, China
“Demolition: Second History”, The Charles Shain Library, Connecticut College, New London, CT
“New Slogan,” Klein Sun Gallery, New York, NY
2010
“Extreme Reality”, Tank Loft, Chongqing Contemporary Art Center, Chongqing, China
“Zhang Dali: A Second History”, Guangdong Museum of Art, Guangzhou, China
“Zhang Dali Solo Show”, Magda Danysz / Bund 18 Gallery, Shanghai, China
2009
“Pervasion: Works by Zhang Dali (1995-2008)”, He Xiangning Art Museum, Shenzhen, China
“Il Sogno Proibito della Nuova Cina”, Palazzo Inghilterra, Turin, Italy
2008
“Slogans”, Kiang Gallery, Atlanta, GA
“The Road to Freedom”, Red Star Gallery, Beijing, China
2007
“Chinese Offspring”, Chinese Contemporary Gallery, New York, NY
2006
“Zhang Dali: Image and Revision in New Chinese Photography”, Janet Wallace Fine Arts Center, Macalester College, St.
Paul, MN
“A Second History”, Ferst Center for the Arts, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA
“Zhang Dali: A Second History”, Walsh Gallery, Chicago, IL
2005
“Sublimation”, Beijing Commune Gallery, Beijing, China
“New Works by Zhang Dali”, Chinese Contemporary Gallery, London, UK
2003
“AK-47”, Galleria Il Traghetto, Venice, Italy
“AK-47”, Galleria Gariboldi, Milan, Italy
2002
“Beijing’s Face”, Base Gallery, Tokyo, Japan
“Headlines”, Chinese Contemporary Gallery, London, UK
2000
“AK-47”, The Courtyard Gallery, Beijing, China
1999
“Dialogue”, Chinese Contemporary Gallery, London, UK
“Dialogue and Demolition”, The Courtyard Gallery, Beijing, China
1994
“Rivoluzione e Violenza”, Galleria Studio 5, Bologna, Italy
1993
“Zhang Dali: Pitture a Inchiostro”, Galleria Studio 5, Bologna, Italy
1989
“Wash Painting Exhibition by Zhang Dali”, Central Academy of Fine Arts Museum, Beijing, China


Selected group exhibitions
2020
“The Logic of Painting”, Shijiazhuang Art Museum, Shijiazhuang, China
“Four-Dimensional Scenery”, K-Gallery, Chengdu, China
“Apnea”, NL Museum (online exhibition), Beijing, China
2019
“New Art History”, Moca, Yinchuan, China
Golden Panda Photography Awards, Contemporary Image Museum, Chengdu, China
“A Fairy Tale in Red Times”, National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia
NordArt 2019, Kunstwerk Carlshütte, Büdelsdorf, Germany
Shenzhen International Beach Sculpture Festival, Golden Sand Beach, Shenzhen, China
“Bubble-Profile of Time”, Shanghai Urban Planning Exhibition Center, Shanghai, China
The 8th Dali International Photography Exposition, Dali, China
“Graffiti-The Prose of Freedom”, China Check Art Museum, Beijing, China
“180 Years of Photography in China”, Moca, Yinchuan, China
“A Confrontation of Ideas”, Anren Biennale, Anren, China
2018
Nord Art 2018, Kunswerk Carlshuerre, Buedelsdorf, Germany
“Art From The Streets”, ArtScience Museum, Singapore
“The Fuck Off Generation: Chinese Art In The Post-Mao Era”, Ethan Cohen Gallery, New York, USA
“Travelers: Stepping into the Unknown”, The National Museum of Art, Osaka, Japan
“Ambush on All Sides - An Alternative Intervention in Social Vision”, Museum of Sichuan Fine Art Institute, Chongqing, China
“Herbstsalon ’18 – Brücken Fremder Flüsse”, MDR TV Station, Magdeburg, Germany
2017
“Street generations(s) 40 years of urban art”, La Condition Publique, Lille, France
“Working on History.
Chinese Photography and the Cultural Revolution”, State Museum, Berlin, Germany
2016
“Audacious – Contemporary Artists Speak Out”, Denver Art Museum, Denver, USA
“Utopias Heterotopias”, Wuzhen Silk Factory, Wuzhen, China
“Subjective Reality”, SheShanMOCA, Shanghai, China
“An Exhibition about Exhibitions – Displaying Contemporary Art in the 1990s”, OCAT Institute, Beijing, China
“Street Art – A Global View”, CAFA Art Museum, Beijing, China
“Busan Biennale”, Busan Museum of Art, Busan, South Korea
“Vile Bodies”, White Rabbit Gallery, Sydney, Australia
“Enduring Magnetism”, 1X3 Gallery, Beijing, China
“Historicode – Scarsity and Supply”, Nanjing, China
“Chinascape: From Rural to Urban”, Spazioborgogno, Milan, Italy
2015
“Community Implant Plan”, Chengdu Jinjiang Museum, Chengdu, China
“Sudden Change of Idea – Chinese and German Conceptual Art Comparative Research Exhibition”, United Museum, Wuhan,  China
“The Persistence of Images”, Red Brick Factory Art District, Guangzhou, China
“ART PARK”, Art Beijing, Agricultural Exhibition Center of China, Beijing, China
“Photomonth”, Muzeum Sztuki i Techniki Japonskiej, Krakow, Poland
“De/constructing China”, Asia Society, New York, USA
“We are together”, Taikoo Square, Chengdu, China
“The Civil Power”, Beijing Minsheng Art Museum，Beijing，China
“Grain to pixel - A story of photography in China”, Shanghai center of photography, Shanghai, China
“Paradise Bitch” , White Rabbit Gallery, Sydney, Australia
“Chinese photography - twentieth century and beyond”	Three shadows photography art centre，Beijing，China
“A new dynasty - created in China”, Denmark Aros Art Museum, ARhus, Denmark
“Agitprop!”, Brooklyn Museum, New York, USA
2014
“De Heus-Zomers Collection of Chinese Contemporary Art”, Museum Bojimans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam, Holland
“Chinese Contemporary Photography”, Minsheng Museum, Shanghai, China
“West Says East Says – Chinese Contemporary Art Research Exhibition”, United Museum, Wuhan, China
“Chinese Contemporary Photography”, ArtScience Museum &Singapore Photography Festival, Singapore
“Photography in the Post Media Era”, Lianzhou Photo Festival, Lianzhou, China
2013
“FUCK OFF 2”, The Groeniger Museum, Groeningen, The Netherlands
“Voice of the Unseen: Chinese Independent Art 1797/Today”, Arsenale Nord, Venice, Italy
“The Nature of Things”, Gallery Magda Danysz Shanghai, China
“Hot Pot: A Taste of Contemporary Chinese Art”, Brattleboro Museum and Art Center, Brattleboro, VT
“RE-INK: Invitational Exhibition of Contemporary Ink Wash Painting 2000 – 2012”, Hubei Museum of Art, Wuhan, Hubei, China; Today Art Museum, Beijing, China
"Individual Growth – Momentum of Contemporary Art", Tianjin Art Museum, Tianjin, China
“Incarnations”, Institut Confucius des Pays de la Loire d’Angers, Angers, France
"Aura and Post Aura", The First Beijing Photography Biennale, China Millennium Monument, Beijing, China
"World's Shadows", Photo Phnom Penh 2013, Royal University of Phnom Penh, Phnom Penh, Cambodia
“Spectacle Reconstruction – Chinese Contemporary Art”, MODEM, Debrecen, Hungary
“Spectacle Reconstruction”, Budapest Art Museum, Budapest, Hungary
“Chinese Photography”, Galerie Paris-Beijing, Brussels, Belgium
“One Square Meter – Situation”, Linda Gallery, Beijing, China
“Aftermath”, 21c Museum, Louisville, USA
2012
"OMEN 2012 – Chinese New Art," Shanghai Art Museum (Meishuguan), Shanghai, China
“Raze”, Peking Fine Arts, Beijing, China
“Faking It: Manipulating Photography Before Photoshop”, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, NY
“The Unseen”, The 4th Guangzhou Triennial, Guangdong Museum of Art, Guangzhou, China
“Body Double: The Figure in Contemporary Sculpture”, The Meijer Gardens and Sculpture Park, Grand Rapids, MI
2011
“Start from the Horizon: Chinese Contemporary Sculpture Since 1978”, Sishang Art Museum, Beijing, China
"Guanxi: Contemporary Chinese Art”, Today Art Museum, Beijing, China; Guangdong Museum of Art, Guangzhou, China
“New Photography 2011”, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, NY
“Speech Matters”, The 54th International Art Exhibition of the Venice Biennale, Venice, Italy
“Scenes from Within: Contemporary Art from China", Blackbridge Hall Gallery, Georgia College, Milledgeville, GA
“Black and White”, Zero Art Museum, Beijing, China
“The Life and Death of Buildings”, Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton, NJ
“Relationship”, Guangdong Museum of Art, Guangzhou, China
“Self Camera”, Changwon Asia Art Festival, Seongsan Art Hall, Changwon, South Korea
“The Evolving Art”, Academy of Arts & Design at Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
2010
“Is the World Real?”, 6th Lianzhou International Photo Festival, Lianzhou, China
“The Original Copy: Photography of a Sculpture, 1839 to Today”, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, NY
“Exhibition Exhibition”, Castello di Rivoli Museo di Arte Contemporanea, Turin, Italy
“Four Dimensions”, Hong Kong Photo Festival, Hong Kong
“Zhang Dali:  A Second History”, 41st Edition of Les Recontres d’Arles,” Espace Van Gogh, Arles, France
“A Decade-Long Exposure”, Central Academy of Fine Arts Museum, Beijing, China
“Dimensionality”, Red Star Gallery, Beijing, China
“Great Performance”, Pace Beijing, Beijing, China
“Ame de Chine”, Magda Danysz Gallery, Paris, France
“From New York to Beijing: Graffiti - Blogging in the Street - Blade and Zhang Dali”, C-Space, Beijing, China
“Re-Visioning History”, OV Gallery, Shanghai, China
“Reshaping History - Chinart from 2000-2009”, National Conference Center, Beijing, China
“China’s Soul”, Magda Danysz Gallery, Paris, France
2009
“Chasing Flames”, Klein Sun Gallery, New York, NY
"Quadrilogy: Conflicting Tales: Subjectivity", DAAD Gallery, Berlin, Germany
"Calligraffiti: ‘Writing’ in Contemporary Chinese and Chicano Art", Pacific Asia Museum, Pasadena, CA
“Re-imaging Asia”, The New Art Gallery, Walsall, UK
“Stairway to Heaven: From Chinese Streets to Monuments and Skyscrapers”, Kansas City Art Institute, Kansas City, MO
“Chinese Prints”, Pace Prints, New York, NY
“The Very Condition”, Wall Art Museum, Beijing, China
“Images from History”, Shenzhen Art Museum, Shenzhen, China
“Collision”, Central Academy of Fine Arts Museum, Beijing, China
“Transforming Traditions”, Victoria H.
Myhren Gallery, University of Denver, Denver, CO
“From Style Writing to Art – Street Art Group Show”, 18 Gallery, Shanghai, China
2008
“Stairway to Heaven: From Chinese Streets to Monuments and Skyscrapers”, Bates College Museum of Art, Lewiston, ME
“Five Years of Duolun”, Shanghai Duolun Museum of Modern Art, Shanghai, China
“The Revolution Continues: New Art From China”, Saatchi Museum, London, UK
“Logan Collection”, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, San Francisco, CA
“China Gold”, Musee Maillol, Paris, France
“Zhang Dali and Shen Shaomin”, Klein Sun Gallery, New York, NY
“The Avant-Garde in the ‘80s and ‘90s of the Last Century in China”, Groningen Museum, Groningen, The Netherlands
“Guang Hua Road”, Michael Schultz Gallery, Beijing, China
“Exquisite Corpse: China Surreal”, M97 Gallery, Shanghai, China
“Go China!”, Groninger Museum, Groninger, The Netherlands
“Re-Imagining Asia: Asian Coordinates”, House of World Cultures, Berlin, Germany
2007
“All of our Tomorrows: The Culture of Camouflage”, Kunstraum der Universität, Lünenburg, Germany
“Unexpected: Out of Control”, Ku Art Center, Beijing, China
“China Now”, Cobra Museum of Modern Art, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
“Red Hot”, Houston Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, TX
“Three Unitary”, DDM, Shanghai, China
“La Cina è vicina”, Mediterranea Gallery, Palermo, Italy
“Past Forward”, Oriental Vista Art Collections, Shanghai, China
2006
“Radar: Selections from the Collection of Kent and Vicki Logan”, Denver Art Museum, Denver, CO
“China Now”, Essl Museum, Vienna, Austria
“Fever Variations”, 6th Gwangju Biennale, Gwangju, South Korea
“Red Star”, 798 Factory Red Star Gallery, Beijing, China
“Great Performance”, Max Protetch, New York, NY
2005
“Wall”, Millennium Museum, Beijing, China
“Mayfly”, Beijing Commune Gallery, Beijing, China
“The Game of Realism”, Beijing Commune Gallery, Beijing, China
“Chinese Contemporary Sculpture Exhibition”, Museum Beelden aan Zee, Scheveningen, The Netherlands
2004
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, International Center of Photography, New York, NY
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Asia Society, New York, NY
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Smart Museum of Art, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, IL
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Victoria & Albert Museum, London, UK
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Seattle Art Museum, Seattle, WA
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Haus der Kulturen der Welt, Berlin, Germany
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, Santa Barbara Museum of Art, Santa Barbara, CA
“Between Past and Future: New Photography and Video from China”, The Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University, Durham, NC
“Critical Mass”, Chinese Contemporary Gallery, Beijing, China
“Me!
Me!
Me!”, The Courtyard Gallery, Beijing, China
2003
“The Logan Collection”, Denver Art Museum, Denver, CO
“China-Germany Art”, Factory 798, Beijing, China
“Festival Internazionale di Roma”, L'Officina-Arte del Borghetto, Rome, Italy
2002
“New Photography from China”, The Courtyard Gallery, Beijing, China
1st Guangzhou Triennial, Guangdong Museum of Art, Guangzhou, China
International Photography Festival, Pingyao, China
2001
“Courtyard Gallery August Group Show”, The Courtyard Gallery, Beijing, China
“China Art Now”, Singapore Art Museum, Singapore
“Contemporary Chinese Photography”, Oulu Art Museum, Oulu, Finland
“Contemporary Chinese Photography”, Finland Museum of Photography, Helsinki, Finland
“Hot Pot”, Kunstnernes, Oslo, Norway
2000
“Fuck Off”, Eastlink Gallery, Shanghai, China
“Artistes Contemporains Chinois”, Musee des Tapisseries, Aix-en-Provence, France
“Thought Brand Meat Mincer”, Dongsi 8 Tiao Performance, Beijing, China
“Food as Art”, Club Vogue, Beijing, China
“Serendipity”, The Japan Foundation Asia Center, Tokyo, Japan
1999
“Transparence Opacite?”, Valle d’Aosta, Italy
“Food for Thought”, Eindhoven, The Netherlands
“Beijing in London”, ICA, London, UK
“HSIN: a visible spirit”, Cypress College & BC Space Gallery, Cypress, CA
“The World Is Yours!”, Design Museum Performance, Beijing, China
“Unveiled Reality-Chinese Contemporary Photography”, Chulalongkom University Museum, Bangkok, Thailand
“Chinese Contemporary Photography”, Bard College, Red Hook, NY
1998
“Chinese Artists Group Show”, Chinese Contemporary Gallery, London, UK
“Chinese Contemporary Photography”, Lehman College, New York, NY
11th Tallinn Triennial, Tallinn, Estonia
“Urbanity”, Wang Shou Temple Art Museum, Beijing, China
1997
“W ²+ Z ²- Multi-media and video Exhibition”, Gallery of the National Academy of Fine Arts, Beijing, China
1995
“La Formazione della Terra”, Goethe Institute Gallery, Turin, Italy
1993
“Arte Deperibile”, Spazio Cultura Navile, Bologna, Italy
“Zona Internazionale”, Neon Gallery, Bologna, Italy
1992
“Collettiva Di Artisti Cinesi”, Il Sigillo Gallery, Padova, Italy
1991
“Pittura su Carta”, Galleria Comunale, Ferrara, Italy
1989
“Wash Painting Salon in Peking”, Capital Museum, Beijing, China
1987
“Three Men Show”, Sun Yat Sen Park, Beijing, China


References


Bibliography
Zhang Dali Demolition & Dialogue [Paperback] published by Courtyard Gallery, Beijing.
Editor: Meg Maggio, 1999
Q & A: Zhang Dali interview, CNN, Dec 11, 2006
Archive of Chinese Avant Garde Art, Cornell University
Wu Hong, Zhang Dali's Dialogue: Conversation with a City in Public Culture – Vol.12, No.3, Fall 2000, pp.
749–768 accessed at [1] - subscription only
Maurizio Marinelli, 'Walls of Dialogue in the Chinese Space', China Information, No.
18, 2004, pp.
429–462.
Available at: http://cin.sagepub.com/content/18/3/429.refs or at: http://www.homeshopbeijing.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/marinelli_bj-dialogue_i.pdf
Maurizio Marinelli, 'Civilising the Citizens: Political Slogans and the Right to the City', Portal, Vol.
9, No.
3, 2012, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/journals/index.php/portal/article/view/2540


External links
Zhang Dali – Saatchi Gallery
Zhang Dali - Magda Danysz Gallery & 18 Gallery - Paris - Shanghai
Zhang Dali - Kiang Gallery
Zhang Dali – Base Gallery
Zhang Dali - Klein Sun Gallery
Zhang Dali at Pekin Fine Arts
Zhang Dali in The Strip Gallery
About Zhang Dali- Chinese Artist Archived 2021-01-25 at the Wayback Machine

2013 Northern Pride RLFC season
2013 was the sixth competitive season for the Cairns based Skill360 Northern Pride Rugby League Football Club.
They were one of 12 clubs that played in the eighteenth season of Queensland's top rugby league competition, QRL's Intrust Super Cup, with each team playing 11 home games and 11 away games over 24 weeks between March and August.
New coach Jason Demetriou was appointed on a two-year deal, replacing last year's coach, David Maiden (2010-2012), who was now QRL's Cairns-based Region Co-ordinator.
Demetriou had played for Newtown Jets in the Metropolitan Cup, before moving to England where he played centre, lock, second-row and five-eighth for Lancashire Lynx, Rochdale Hornets, Widnes Vikings, and Keighley Cougars, was captain for Wakefield Trinity Wildcats, and an international, having represented Canada in the 2000 Rugby League Emerging Nations World Championship, and Greece in 2007.
He was coach for the Keighley Cougars (2011-2012), before moving home to Australia to take up the job with the Pride.
In his first season in Cairns he was awarded the 'Men of League' Coach of the Year.
The Pride moved their administration from Jones Park, Mann Street, to 'Northern Pride HQ', Moore House at Barlow Park, and the team spent more time training at West Barlow Park.
The Pride played three pre-season trial matches.
The first was the opening match to the North Queensland Cowboys v St George Illawarra Dragons trial match, which attracted a crowd of over 12,000.
The game against the winners of the 2012 Digicel Cup, East New Britain Province side Agmark Rabaul Gurias, attracted a crowd of several thousand enthusiastic PNG ex-pats.
The third trial saw a full-strength Pride squad with six Cowboys beat local rivals Mackay Cutters 40-12.
Two weeks later in Round 1 the Pride beat the Cutters 44-12.
The Round 4 away game against Tweed Heads Seagulls was relocated to Billy Slater Oval, Callendar Park, Innisfail with funding provided by Cassowary Coast Regional Council.
Country Week (Round 20), was played at Jilara Oval, Yarrabah, effectively giving the Pride two extra home games this season.
Except for Round 2 and Round 9, the Pride were on the top of the ladder every week, finishing in first place at the end of the regular season with 17 wins to claim their first Minor Premiership.
Despite their winning form this season, the Pride lost both the Major Semi-Final (to Easts Tigers) and the Preliminary Final (to Mackay Cutters), missing out on a Grand Final appearance.
The Cutters went on to defeat the Tigers in the Grand Final.
At the end of the season Captain Ty Williams retired.

Northern Pride 2013 ISC video highlights (10 Videos).


2013 Season - Skill360 Northern Pride

Competition: Intrust Super Cup
Sponsor: Skill360


Staff


Coaches/Trainers
Coach: Jason Demetriou
Assistant coach: Ben Rauter
Assistant coach: Joe O'Callaghan
Mal Meninga Cup U-18s coach: Cameron 'Spilla' Miller
Cyril Connell Cup U-16s coach: Paul Callaghan
Strength and conditioning coach: Patrick Ranasinghe
Trainer: Deb Gallop
Physiotherapist: Tim Laycock


Captains
Ty Williams
Brett Anderson (Rounds 9, 15 & 24)
Jason Roos (Round 16)


Managers
Operations manager: Sheron McDougall
Team manager: Rob White
Club captain:
Business development manager: Brock Schaefer
'Take Pride' Program Manager: Chey Bird
Accounts Manager: Lauren Dowling
Chief executive: Chris Sheppard then Brock Schaefer.(Shep resigned in April 2013, and was replaced the following month by Northern Pride business development manager, Brock Schaefer).
Chairman: Bob Fowler
Board of Directors: Craig Meiklejohn, Bob Fowler, Anthony Mirotsos, Bill Phillips, David Smith.


2013 Squad
The Pride used 32 players this season.
Fourteen players from last year signed with the club again, and six of the Cowboys allocation players from last year were assigned to the Pride again this year.
Twelve new players made their debut this season; eight were new signings (Aiden Smith, Jordan Biondi-Odo, Mervyn Walker, Nick Dorante, Sam Obst, Semi Tadulala, Steve Snitch and Tom Hancock), and four were new Cowboys allocation players (Felise Kaufusi*, Kyle Feldt*, Ray Thompson* and Scott Moore*).
Although Ethan Lowe was signed by the Cowboys, he was allocated to the Pride and made 20 appearances in QCup this season.


2013 player gains


Player losses after 2012 season


Cowboys no longer allocated to the Pride


2013 season launch
Pre-Season Training: 5 November 2012.
Pre Season Boot Camp: Lake Tinaroo, Atherton Tablelands - Friday 18-Sunday 20 January 2013.
DonateLife Week fund-raiser: Touch football match against Lotus Glen prison inmates, 27 February 2013.
Season Launch: Thursday, 14 March 2013.
7.00pm at Mount Sheridan Plaza.


2013 player awards
Sunday 1 September 2013, Brothers World of Entertainment, Manunda

Skill360 Australia Northern Pride Player of the Year: Davin Crampton.
Sea Swift Players' Player: Hezron Murgha
Sea Swift Members' Player of the Year: Hezron Murgha
Sea Swift Most improved player: Shaun Nona
Sea Swift Best Back: Sam Obst
Sea Swift Best Forward: Ethan Lowe*
John O'Brien Perpetual Club Person of the Year: Cameron Penny
XXXX People's Choice Award: Hezron Murgha
Men of League Coach of the Year: Jason Demetriou
Intrust Super Cup Leading Try Scorer: Davin Crampton.


2013 player records
Most Games: Ben Spina (24).
Most Tries: Davin Crampton (19).
Most Points: Shaun Nona (88).


2013 representative players
 Ryan Ghietti played for Italy Azzurri in the 2013 Rugby League World Cup


2013 Queensland Residents team
 Blake Leary
 Hezron Murgha


Players signed to first-tier teams


2013 Jerseys


Trial matches


Intrust Super Cup matches


2013 Ladder

Source: qrl.com


Northern Pride (regular season 2013)
Win = 17 (9 of 11 home games, 8 of 11 away games)
Loss = 5 (2 of 11 home games, 3 of 11 away games)


Finals Series


2013 Northern Pride players


North Queensland Cowboys who played for the Pride in 2013


2013 Televised Games


Channel Nine
In August 2012 as part of the historic $1 billion five-year broadcasting agreement with Nine and Fox Sports, the Australian Rugby League Commission confirmed that Intrust Super Cup matches would continue to be televised by Channel 9 until 2018.
One match a week will be shown live across Queensland at 2.00pm (AEST) on Sunday afternoons on Channel 9, WIN Television (RTQ), in remote areas on Imparja Television and in Papua New Guinea on Kundu 2 TV.
The 2013 commentary team was Peter Psaltis, Paul Green, Matthew Thompson, Scott Sattler and Adrian Vowles.
In 2013 the Pride appeared in eight televised games:

Round 2: Northern Pride beat Burleigh Bears 24-22 at Pizzey Park, Miami, Gold Coast.
Round 12: Northern Pride beat Easts Tigers 24-8 at Langlands Park, Stones Corner, Brisbane.
Round 15: Northern Pride beat Redcliffe Dolphins 36-16 at Dolphin Oval, Redcliffe.
Round 17: Northern Pride lost to Mackay Cutters 26-16 (played at 12:30pm, and telecast delayed to 2.00pm) from Virgin Australia Stadium, Mackay.
Round 18: Northern Pride beat Norths Devils 38-6 at Bishop Park, Nundah.
6: Northern Pride beat Burleigh Bears 44-12 at Barlow Park, Cairns.
Major Semi-Final: Northern Pride lost to Easts Tigers 16-29 at Barlow Park, Cairns.
Preliminary Final: Northern Pride lost to Mackay Cutters 6-20 at Langlands Park, Stones Corner, Brisbane.


Live Streaming
In 2013, all matches (including pre-season trials but excluding matches broadcast live by Channel Nine) were streamed live through the Pride website, with access granted exclusively to Pride members.
Video production was by Studio Productions and the commentary team was WIN TV's Adam Jackson and Pride U-18s coach, Cameron 'Spilla' Miller.


References


External links
Official website

Avan (1985 film)
Avan (transl. Him) is a 1985 Indian Tamil-language film, directed by Chozha Rajan and produced by K.
R.
Kannan.
The film stars Arjun and Ilavarasi.
It was released on 12 October 1985.


Plot


Cast
Arjun as Johnny
Ilavarasi as Priya
Senthil
Vinu Chakravarthy
Jaishankar as Chakravarthy
Senthamarai
S.
S.
Chandran
Loose Mohan
Kumari Muthu
Anuradha as Special appearance


Soundtrack
The music was composed by Shankar–Ganesh, with lyrics by Vairamuthu.


Reception
Jayamanmadhan of Kalki felt the film can be advertised as a film imposed with too many spicy ingredients like karate, love, affection and tears but praised the director for keeping the screenplay organised.


References


External links
Avan at IMDb

Carrollton Township, Boone County, Arkansas
Carrollton Township is one of twenty townships in Boone County, Arkansas, USA.
As of the 2010 census, it had a total population of 843.


Geography
According to the United States Census Bureau, Carrollton Township covers an area of 26.149 square miles (67.73 km2); consisting of 25.935 square miles (67.17 km2) of land and 0.214 square miles (0.55 km2) of water.


Cities, towns, and villages
Alpena (part)


Population history
Between 1920 and 1980, the population of Carrollton Township in Boone County included the total population of the town of Alpena, even though Alpena lies in both Boone County and parts of two townships in Carroll County.
Starting in 2000, the US Census began reporting Alpena's population by township across both counties.


References
United States Census Bureau 2008 TIGER/Line Shapefiles
United States Board on Geographic Names (GNIS)
United States National Atlas

Census 2010 U.S.
Gazetteer Files: County Subdivisions in Arkansas


External links
US-Counties.com
City-Data.com

Mining in Iran
Mining in Iran is still under development, yet the country is one of the most important mineral producers in the world, ranked among 15 major mineral-rich countries, holding some 68 types of minerals, 37 billion tonnes of proven reserves and more than 57 billion tonnes of potential reserves worth $770 billion in 2014.
Mineral production contributes only 0.6 percent to the country's GDP.
Add other mining-related industries and this figure increases to just four percent (2005).
Many factors have contributed to this, namely lack of suitable infrastructure, legal barriers, exploration difficulties, and government control.
The most important mines in Iran include coal, metallic minerals, sand and gravel, chemical minerals and salt.
Khorasan has the most operating mines in Iran.
Other large deposits which mostly remain underdeveloped are zinc (the world's largest), copper (world's ninth largest reserves in 2011, according to the managing director of National Iranian Copper Industries Company), iron (the world's 12th largest in 2013 according to the US Geological Survey), uranium (the world's tenth largest) and lead (world's eleventh largest).
Iran with roughly 1% of the world's population holds more than 7% of the world's total mineral reserves.
In 2019, the country was the 2nd largest world producer of gypsum; the 8th largest world producer of molybdenum; the world's 8th largest producer of antimony; the 11th largest world producer of iron ore; the 18th largest world producer of sulfur, in addition to being the 21st largest worldwide producer of salt.
It was the 13th largest producer in the world of uranium in 2018.


Economics

Close to 30 percent of the country's investment has been made in the mining field in recent years.
In 2008, forty five percent of the stock market's capitalization was in the mineral industries.
In 2008 the share of the mining sector and mineral industries increased to over five percent in GDP.
The sector with the highest profit margin among the top 100 Iranian companies in 2009 was mining, with a margin of 58%, while those in the Fortune 500 had a gross profit margin of 11%.
In the first quarter of 2009–2010, Iran exported close to 5.6 million tons of mineral products worth over $1.2 billion.
In 2009–2010 the mining sector had exports reaching $8.13 billion, accounting for about 32 percent of the country's non-oil exports.
Every year, the iron ore price is determined by the government after negotiations between iron ore and steel producers.
In 2008, the average price of iron ore was set at $56 per tonne.
The steel, cement and iron ore prices are currently being liberalized in Iran.
In March 2012, the Iran Mercantile Exchange (IME) announced the complete liberalisation of the sale price of raw steel and by-products.
Iran's mineral reserves are valued at more than $770 billion (2014).
In 2005, of 3,125 operating mines, 2,747 and 378 mines were run by private and public sectors respectively.
As of 2010, 5,574 mines are being exploited in 30 provinces of the country (which are active, inactive or in the state of being equipped).
The rate of extraction from these mines stood at approximately 217.5 million tons in previous years.
More than 100,000 people are presently engaged in the mines sector while as a whole some 500,000 people are employed in the mine sector.
The number of operating mining units stands at 20,375.
National Iranian mining company is the world's 23rd largest mining company with 0.6% of the world's total mining production.
Exploration projects implemented by the National Geology and Mineral Exploration Organization in the three years period of 2005–2008 are six times higher than the figure for the same period during the previous government.
Since 2005, mortality rate in mining mishaps has declined to one death for every 10 million tons of mining production from the previous figure of six million tons.


Commodities

Although the petroleum industry provides the majority of economic revenues, about 75 percent of all mining sector employees work in mines producing minerals other than oil and natural gas.
These include coal, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromium, barite (world's sixth largest producer), salt, gypsum, molybdenum, strontium, silica, uranium, and gold (most as a coproduct of the Sarcheshmeh copper complex operations).
The mines at Sarcheshmeh in Kerman Province contain the world's second largest lode of copper ore (5% of the world's total).
Some 128,500 tons were extracted in 2000–2001.
Large iron ore deposits exist in central Iran, near Bafq, Yazd, and Kerman.
Iran produces orpiment and realgar arsenic concentrates, silver, asbestos, borax, hydraulic cement, clays (bentonite, industrial, and kaolin), diatomite, feldspar, fluorspar, turquoise, industrial or glass sand (quartzite and silica), lime, magnesite, nitrogen (of ammonia and urea), perlite, natural ocher and iron oxide mineral pigments, pumice and related volcanic materials, caustic soda, stones and decorative stones (including granite, marble, travertine, dolomite, and limestone), celestite, natural sulfates (aluminum potassium sulfate and sodium sulfate), amber, tungsten, agate, lapis lazuli and talc.
Iran also produces ferromanganese, ferromolybdenum, nepheline syenite, demantoids, phosphate rock, selenium, shell, andalusite, rockwool, garnet, gabbro, diorite, vermiculite, attapulgite, calcium, barium, rare earth elements, scandium, yttrium and zeolite, and had the capacity to mine onyx.
Iran also has large deposits of herbertsmithite around the city of Anarak.


Iron and steel


Iron ore

In 2009 Iran produced 25.5 million tons of iron ore (fines, lumps and concentrate), – Alternatively, U.S.
Geological Survey ranked Iran, the 8th largest producer of iron ore in 2009 with 33 million tons of output.
Chadormalu and Gol Gohar Iron Ore are the two largest iron ore mines (accounting for
more than 80% of iron ore production in Iran).

Chadormalu Mining and Industrial Company produced 9,498,000 mt of iron ore.
It is the largest iron ore producer listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange,
Gol Gohar Iron Ore Company produced 7,209,000 mt of iron ore; Gol Gohar pellet plant near the southern city of Sirjan, the biggest of its kind in the Middle East, uses iron ore concentrates from the Gol-e-Gohar mine in the province.
The new plant produces five million tonnes of iron ore per year; enough for production of 2.5 million tonnes of steel.
Iran Central Iron Ore Company produced 5,310,000 mt, with the remainder produced by other smaller public sector miners.
In 2009, Iran exported about 10 million metric tons of iron ore, mainly to China.
Gohar Zamin Iron Ore Mine is expected to produce 140 million tons of ore by 2013.
In 2012, Iran opened a sponge iron plant in Hormozgan Province with a projected annual output of 1.8 million tons.
Tariffs for the export of iron ore concentrate and pellet have been set at 50% and 35% respectively (2010).
Starting in 2012, iron ore companies will pay tariffs for their excavation licenses 2% of the price of a tonne of steel billet for every tonne of iron ore that they sell.


Steel

Prior to the Iranian revolution one of Iran's crowning transformations into an industrialized country was steel.
The gigantic Soviet-built Aryamehr steel works in Isfahan was the leading industrial concentration in the country.
In 1978, Aryamehr was producing in excess of 1.9 million tons of steel annually, and by 1985 it was slated to have an output of 8 million tons a year, making it one of the largest steel plants in the world.
By 1985 had the revolution and war not destroyed everything-new plants at Ahwaz, Bandar Abbas, Isfahan, and other sites would have given Iran steel-producing capacity of over 15 million tons a year.
Steel production capacity will reach 17 million tons from 10 million tons in 2009 after the private and state projects come on stream, and 40 million tons over the long run.
Main steel mills are located in Isfahan and Khuzestan.
Major raw steel producers in Iran are:

Mobarakeh Steel Mill (47% market share as of 2010),
Khouzestan Steel Company (23% market share, with new capacity of 80,000 tons),
Isfahan Foundry (20% market share),
Iran National Steel Industries Group (10% market share),
Mazandaran Company (10% market share),
Other notable or new steel producers in Iran are:

Azerbaijan Steel Company,
Iran Steel Alloy Company,
Ahvaz Pipe and Rolling Company,
Khorasan Steel Company,
Natanz Steel Complex, near the city of Isfahan with annual production capacity of 800,000 tonnes of steel rods and is the largest steel rod plant in the Middle East,
Bonab Steel Complex, in the north-western province of East Azerbaijan.
The first unit is a corrugated steel bar production line, with a production capacity of 1 million tonnes per annum and is the largest of its kind in the Middle East.
The second unit is a steel ingot production plant, with an annual capacity of 500,000 tonnes.
In 2010, Iran also inaugurated the largest galvanized sheet production plant for automobiles in the Middle East in the city of Shahr-e Kord.
The plant, which was financed by Iran Khodro and SAIPA, has a capacity of 400,000 tpy.
In 2012, a steel ingot plant was inaugurated in Hormozgan Province of Iran.
The Hormozgan Steel Company has the initial production capacity of 1.5 million tons per year with the capacity to be extended to three million tons in a year.
The plant has been built by an Iranian-German consortium (IRITEC, SMS-DEMAG).
Iran became self-sufficient in steel production in 2009.
In 2008 Iran produced 7.5 million tons of direct reduced iron (DRI).
It produces 13 percent of global DRI production and 41 percent of total Middle East DRI production.
In addition, these projects have resulted in industrial decentralization, development of underprivileged regions, increase in GNP and promotion of industrial infrastructure.
Iran is the world's 16th steel producer.


Bauxite and aluminium


Bauxite
In 2009 Iran will produce 230,000 tons of bauxite.


Aluminium
Iran's aluminium production is targeted to exceed 400,000 tonnes in 2012 and 1.5mnt by 2022.
Planned projects include Alumina Mine's 100,000tpa aluminium production project in North Khorasan Province, 276,000tpa South Aluminium project as well as the 375,000tpa Khuzestan Aluminium project.
As at 2012, the largest plants for aluminium production in Iran are:

Iralco,
Almahdi,
Hormozal aluminium smelter plant in Bandar Abbas.
The newly built Hormozal plant with an annual production capacity of 147,000 tonnes is a joint venture between Iran and Italy.


Coal

Iran has recoverable proven coal reserves of nearly 1.9bn short tonnes, and with total estimated coal reserves of more than 50 billion short tonnes.
By mid-2008, the country produced about 1.3m short tonnes of coal annually and consumed about 1.5m short tonnes, making it a small net importer of coal.
Iran plans to increase hard-coal production to 5 million tons in 2012 from 2 million tons in November 2008.
Major coal producers and exporters in Iran are:

Kerman Coal Company,
Eastern Alborz Coal Company, and
Central Alborz Coal Company.


Coke
In 2015 Iran produced 1.7 million tons of coke.


Zinc and lead
Iran has over 220 million tonnes of proven zinc and lead ore reserves.
With approximately 11 million tonnes of zinc metal constituent and 5 million tonnes of lead metal constituent, Iran has just below 5% of the world's metal constituent reserves.
Two important mines in Iran are:

Mahdi-Abad, which has 75 million tonnes of ore with a zinc concentration of 6% and a lead concentration of 2.7%,
Angouran mine, which has 16 million tonnes of ore with a zinc concentration of 26% and a lead concentration of 6%.
In 2009, with approximately 165,000 tonnes of production, Iran ranked first in the Middle East and 15th in the world in terms of zinc and lead production.
In 2009, Iran exported 77,000 tonnes of zinc and lead concentrate and ingot.
The largest or most profitable producers of zinc and lead in Iran are:

Iran Zinc Mines Development Group (largest producer),
Bama Mining & Industrial Co.,
Bafgh Mines Co.,
Calsimin Co.
(the largest zinc producer in the Middle East)


Uranium

Iran is believed to have large reserves of uranium to use as nuclear fuel in different parts of Iran including Bandar Abbas, Yazd, North Khorasan and Iranian Azerbaijan.
In 2018 and 2019, Iran produced 84 tonnes of U3O8 (yellowcake) per year (est.), entirely sourced from domestic mines.
Because of the country's well-developed uranium mining industry, the Islamic Republic was processing more uranium ore for nuclear fuel and medical applications than Pakistan.


Fluorite
Mazandaran, a valuable reserve of Iran's minerals.
The extraction of more than 22 million minerals and the employment of more than four thousand people have turned mines into golden treasures in Mazandaran.


Copper
In 2009 Iran produced 383,000 tons of copper.
As of 2011, Iran had the world's 9th largest reserves of copper at 32.5 million tons.
The mines at Sarcheshmeh in Kerman Province contain the world's second largest lode of copper ore (5% of the world's total).
As of 2010, Iran ranked 10th in copper production and 17th in copper cathodes production (220,000 tons).
In 2009, Iran exported $1.2 billion worth of copper cathodes.
National Iranian Copper Industries Company (NICICO) is one of the largest companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange and was the largest non-oil exporter in Iran in 2010 with exports worth $1.3 billion.


Gold

Iran's total gold reserves (below ground) are estimated at 320 metric tons.
Based on a short-term program (2008), gold production will reach five tons per year.
Under the long-term plan, the figure will rise to 25 tons per annum.
The main gold-rich regions in Iran are:

Meydouk in Shahr-e Babak (Kerman Province),
Khorapeh in Piranshahr (West Azerbaijan Province),
Nabijan in Kalaybar, (East Azerbaijan Province)
Andaryan in Varzaqan County, East Azerbaijan Province
Alikh in Jolfa (East Azerbaijan Province),
Logheh (Zanjan Province),
Qolqoleh (Kurdistan Province),
Saqqez, in the west,
Piranshahr in the west,
Maherabad, in the east,
Sheikhabad, in the east.
The gold mine in the city of Takab in West Azerbaijan Province (Iran's largest gold mine until 2012) has over 4 tons of proven gold reserves and 5.81 grams of gold can be netted from each ton of gold ore extracted from the mine.
In 2012, three new gold mines with 16 tons of proven net gold deposits have been discovered in Saqqez city in the western province of Kurdistan.
As of 2014, gold ore reserves of Zareh Shuran mine in West Azerbaijan (largest gold plant in the M.E.) are estimated at 20 million tons with an average grade of 5.5 gram per ton which is considered one of the most valuable known mines in the country.
In 2020, provincial officials announced the discovery of large gold reserves in southeast Sistan and Baluchestan after extensive exploration and survey stages were completed.
A license for the exploration of the mine with a definite reserve of eight tonnes of gold was issued.
Iranian officials dubbed Sistan and Baluchestan the "mineral rainbow" of Iran, with the most lucrative reserves of antimony, titanium, copper and gold.


Cement

In 2009, IMIDRO reported that 9 countries including Syria, Venezuela, Bolivia, Algeria, Lebanon, Ecuador, Iraq, Belarus and one of the Mid-Asian countries will have cement plants which will be constructed by Iranian engineers.
Iran is the 8th cement producer in world and 2nd in the Middle East, after Turkey.
In 2009 Iran produced some 65 million tons of cement per year and exported to 40 countries.
There are 57 active production units in Iran as of 2010.
As of 2010, 28 cement companies were listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange.
Iran constitutes 1.8% of the world's cement production and 1.6% of the world's cement consumption.
The main producers of cement are:

Fars & Khuzestan Group is Iran's largest producer of cement with a market share of 24%,
Abyek with 8% market share,
Tehran with 7% market share,
Sepahan with 6% market share.
Cement production/prices in Iran are being liberalized since 2008.
The cement industry is one of the economic sectors that will be hit the hardest in Iran following of the 2010 subsidy reform plan, because many Iranian cement factories are energy-inefficient.


Foreign investments

The government owns 90 per cent of all mines and related large industries in Iran and is seeking foreign investment for the development of the mining sector.
In the steel and copper sectors alone, the government is seeking to raise around US$1.1 billion in foreign financing.
In the early 1990s the buy-back method of transaction (the government buys back the industrial project after the foreign direct investor has recouped his initial investment in the project plus a predefined profit) was introduced to bypass constitutional constraints on foreign investment and avoid potential political difficulties within the country.
The scheme has government support for being an efficient means of attracting foreign capital, services and technical expertise, while reducing foreign exchange expenditures and expanding exports.
If the Iranian Government is to fulfil its 20-year plan to improve the country's mining sector, it's estimated that US$20 billion, mostly in foreign investment, will be required.

Projects eligible for buy-back agreements and foreign loan facilities are:
Projects that complete aluminium production lines
Projects that mobilise coal, iron ore, steel, copper and pigment metals production
Ferro alloys projects and gold production
Iran imports the following equipment to support its mining sector:
Mining equipment such as drills, loaders and shovels
Support equipment such as bulldozers, graders, trucks and auxiliaries
Utility equipment such as compressed air plant equipment, water and waste-water treatment equipment
Mechanical equipment including equipment for crude ore handling, grinding, separation and treatment purposes
Laboratory and workshop equipment
Power supply and distribution equipment
Process control instruments
Most of the electrical distribution equipment for water supply and treatment utilities, along with steelworks and storage facilities are manufactured locally.
There is a demand for high quality second-hand machinery in Iran.
To date, doing business in Iran has had political overtones.
In this regard, countries which can maintain a neutral and impartial political image in the Middle East are advantaged.


Production statistics
Iran's mineral produce include coal, metallic elements, sand and gravel, chemical minerals and salt.
It has the world's largest zinc reserves, holds the second largest copper deposits and ranks ninth for its iron reserves.
The following is a list of some of Iran's industrial mining production and their international rankings:


Mines
Mehdiabad mine (Lead, Zinc)
Sungun copper mine


See also
Ministry of Industries and Mines (Iran)
National Geoscience Database of Iran
Iran Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines & Agriculture
Industry of Iran
Construction industry of Iran
Petroleum industry in Iran
National Iranian Oil Company
List of companies of Iran
Bank of Industry and Mine
IMIDRO
HEPCO
Economy of Iran
Privatization in Iran
Foreign direct investment in Iran
International rankings of Iran


References


External links
Ministry of Industry, Mine and Trade – Iran
Annual Reviews – Reports by the Central Bank of Iran, including statistics about the mining sector in Iran.
Iran's Mining Sector
Mining to Iran – Australian Trade
National Geoscience Database of Iran
Mineral Database of Iran
Iran mining & related industries information center
Mining Industry of Iran 1997
Ferroalloys: World production by country, furnace
Market of Iran
Importance of mining cooperation between Iran, Turkey and Pakistan
Specialized reports
Iran Metals Report Business Monitor International (2012)
The Mineral Industry of Iran (2002)
Videos
Iran's mining industry - Press TV (2011):

Part I
Part II

A-91
The A-91 is a Russian bullpup assault rifle developed by the KBP Instrument Design Bureau during the 1990s.
It is an evolution of the earlier 9A-91 carbine, primarily designed to be compact, reliable, and versatile in urban combat scenarios.
The rifle is notable for its integrated 40mm grenade launcher and the use of a bullpup configuration, which positions the magazine behind the trigger, allowing for a more compact design without sacrificing barrel length.


Design and Features
The A-91 uses a gas-operated system with a rotating bolt, similar to the AK-47 and other Kalashnikov designs.
However, unlike most  Russian rifles, it adopts a bullpup layout, which reduces the overall length while maintaining a full-length barrel, improving handling in confined spaces.
The rifle can be chambered in multiple calibers, 
including the standard Russian 5.45×39mm and 7.62×39mm rounds, as well as the NATO- standard 5.56×45mm NATO cartridge.
Its rate of fire is approximately 600 rounds per minute, with a muzzle velocity of 880 m/s.

One of the most notable features of the A-91 is its integrated under-barrel grenade launcher, designed to fire standard 40mm grenades such as the VOG-25.
The launcher has a range of up to 400 meters.
The rifle also has a spent-case ejection system that ejects casings forward, preventing interference with the user's face or arms when firing from the left shoulder.


Development
The A-91 was designed by the KBP Instrument Design Bureau as a successor to the 9A-91 carbine, with a focus on creating a weapon suited for both conventional and special operations forces.
The bullpup design was chosen for its compact size and ease of handling in close-quarter combat (CQB).
Initial production began in the 1990s, and the rifle has since been used in various roles within the Russian military.


Variants
There are several variants of the A-91, including different configurations for different calibers and missions:

A-91M: The most modern variant, featuring updated materials and improved ergonomic features.
Chambered in both 5.45×39mm and 7.62×39mm.


Usage
The A-91 is in limited service with the Russian Armed Forces and various special forces units.
Its compact design and versatility make it suitable for urban combat and special operations, although it has not seen widespread adoption compared to more traditional Kalashnikov designs like the AK-74 and its variants.


See also
9A-91 carbine
OTs-14 Groza
AK-74
List of assault rifles


References


External links
World Guns: A-91 – Detailed information about the A-91 at Modern Firearms
KBP Instrument Design Bureau – Official site of the manufacturer


Gallery


See also
ADS amphibious rifle


External links
Firearms Russia
"A-91M - Modern Firearms".
2018-05-21.
Archived from the original on 2018-05-21.
Retrieved 2018-05-21.

2010 Florida Tuskers season
The 2010 Florida Tuskers season was the second and final season for the Virginia Destroyers as the Florida Tuskers.
They finished with a 5–3 regular season record and lost in the 2010 UFL Championship Game to the Las Vegas Locomotives for a second straight season.


Offseason
Head coach Jim Haslett left the team in January 2010, becoming the new defensive coordinator for the Washington Redskins.
On February 9, 2010, Jay Gruden was named the team's new head coach and general manager by UFL commissioner Michael Huyghue.
On the same day of Gruden's appointment, the Tampa Bay Rays were announced to have sold their interest in the franchise, which meant that all home games for the Tuskers would be played at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando.
Along with the league's other teams, the Tuskers unveiled new uniforms during an event at Fashion Show Mall in Las Vegas on July 28, 2010.


UFL draft


Personnel


Staff


Roster


Schedule


Championship game


Standings

y-denotes team has clinched a 2010 UFL championship game berth
x-denotes team has been eliminated from championship contention


Game summaries


Week 1: at Las Vegas Locomotives


Week 2: at Sacramento Mountain Lions


Week 3: vs.
Las Vegas Locomotives


Week 4: at Hartford Colonials


Week 5: BYE


Week 6: vs.
Sacramento Mountain Lions


Week 7: BYE


Week 8: vs.
Omaha Nighthawks


Week 9: vs.
Hartford Colonials


Week 10: at Omaha Nighthawks


Championship game


References

A Diamond for Disease
A Diamond for Disease is an EP by American heavy metal band Arsis released on October 25, 2005, via Willowtip Records.
The title track, "A Diamond for Disease", took almost four months to write.
This release also includes an Alice Cooper cover from the Raise Your Fist and Yell album, and "The Promise of Never" (which is a re-recorded track from the band's 2001 demo, originally titled Fortune's Envy).
The EP was mastered by James Murphy, who is best known for his work with Death, Testament, Obituary, and Disincarnate.


Track listing


Personnel
James Malone – vocals, guitars, bass
Mike Van Dyne – drums


Production
Brett Portzer - engineering (drums)
Eyal Levi - engineering, mixing
James Murphy - mastering
Mark Riddick - artwork, layout


References

High Point Panthers
The High Point Panthers are the 17 varsity athletic teams that represent High Point University (HPU) in High Point, North Carolina, United States.
All of HPU's varsity teams compete at the NCAA Division I level.
All sports except men's lacrosse and women's rowing compete in the Big South Conference.
The men's lacrosse team joined the Atlantic 10 Conference after the 2022 season.
Women's rowing was added in 2024–25, initially competing as an independent until joining the new rowing league of the Mid-American Conference in 2025–26.
The Panthers joined Division I in 1999, after having been NCAA Division II and being members of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) prior to 1992.
HPU was a founding member of the North State Conference, which is now the NCAA Division II Conference Carolinas.
Dan Hauser became HPU's athletic director in May 2014.
He replaced Craig Keilitz, who held the position from 2008 to 2014.
Keilitz replaced Woody Gibson, who had been AD since 1999.
HPU's other previous athletic directors include Jerry Steele, who was also basketball coach from 1972 to 2003, and Virgil Yow, who was also a coach.

HPU's main athletic facilities are the Millis Center (volleyball), Vert Stadium (track, soccer and lacrosse) and Williard Stadium (baseball).
In September 2018, ground broke on the Qubein Center (full name: Nido and Mariana Qubein Arena and Conference Center).
The facility will host men's and women's basketball and seat 4,500 spectators.
It was originally scheduled to open for the 2020–21 school year, but construction delays brought on by COVID-19 have delayed the opening to 2021–22.


Teams
A member of the Big South Conference, High Point sponsors teams in eight men's and nine women's NCAA sanctioned sports:


Men's basketball

The team began varsity play in 1927–28 and was a charter member of the North State Conference (now Conference Carolinas) from 1930–31 through 1996–97, when the school began its transition to NCAA Division I.
High Point won 15 regular-season championships and 13 tournament championships while in the North State Conference and participated in the NAIA national tournament in 1939, 1942, 1946, 1951, 1964, 1965, 1969 and 1979.
High Point participated in the NCAA Division II Tournament in 1997.
HPU moved up to NCAA Division I in 1999–2000 and joined the Big South Conference.
The Panthers made it to the Big South final in their first year of eligibility in 2002 and also made it to the championship game in 2004.
HPU has had two Big South Players of the Year: Danny Gathings (2003–04) and Arizona Reid (2006–07, 2007–08).
Reid is the only player in conference history with over 2,000 points and 1,000 rebounds and was A.P.
All-American honorable mention twice.
In 2011–12, guard Nick Barbour broke Reid's Division I scoring record, finishing his career with 2,121 points.
Barbour became the second player in team history to lead HPU in scoring four times in a row.
The Panthers made their first Division I NCAA Tournament in 2025.
The team's prominent alumni include former head coach Tubby Smith, former NBA head coach Gene Littles and former NBA referee Joe Forte.
Littles is the program's all-time leading scorer, with 2,398 points from 1965 to 1969.
George Nostrand played at High Point from 1941 to 1944 and went on to play in the first NBA game ever in 1946.
Along with Cherry, High Point's prominent head coaches have been Virgil Yow (1933–45, 1953–62), J.D.
Barnett (1971–72), Jerry Steele (1972–2003) and Bart Lundy (2003–09).


Women's basketball

High Point University started women's basketball in 1967–68 and the team is now coached by DeUnna Hendrix (pronounced de-AH-nah), who was hired in May 2012.
Hendrix served as assistant coach for one season under Jennifer Hoover.
In Hoover's only season in 2011–12, the team achieved a record of 20–13.
Her performance earned her the Maggie Dixon Rookie of the Year award, presented to a coach with remarkable success in their rookie year as a head coach.
Hoover was then hired by her alma mater, Wake Forest, to be head coach in May 2012.
High Point won the 1978 AIAW Division II national championship with a 92–88 overtime win over South Carolina State.
The following year, High Point set a program record with 33 wins but was unable to defend its national title, falling to Tougaloo in the AIAW Region II Tournament.
High Point completed its transition to Division I in 1999–2000 and joined the Big South Conference.
High Point has finished above .500 in the Big South in every season since 2000–01.
HPU won the Big South regular season championship in 2006–07, the team's only title since joining the league.
High Point finished second in the Big South regular season and made it to the Big South tournament final in 2011–12, just the second time the team finished in the top two in the standings and made it to the championship in the same season.
High Point earned its second WNIT berth in 2012.
High Point's all-time leading scorer is current Spring Hill College head coach Karen (Curtis) McConico who scored 2,612 points from 1994 to 1998.
The team's most prominent alumnus is former Duke head coach and current television color commentator Debbie Leonard who played for High Point from 1970 to 1974.
The first female player played on a college men's basketball team in 1944 when then High Point men's coach Virgil Yow recruited Nancy Isenhour to be on the team.
She started three games.


Cross country and track & field

Head coach Mike Esposito leads HPU's men's and women's cross country, indoor and outdoor track & field teams.
Esposito was coach at Mount Tabor High School in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, for 19 years and has been High Point's head coach since 2005.
HPU's longest-tenured coach was Bob Davidson, who led HPU for 39 seasons into the early 2000s.
The Panthers' strongest events are cross country and long-distance events in track & field.
HPU's men's cross country team won three-straight Big South Championships from 2002 to 2004 and has been runner-up at the Big South Championship from 2007 to 2011.
The women's cross country team won its first Big South Championship in 2011 and Esposito was named conference Coach of the Year.
The Panthers have had two NCAA Division I All-Americans in track & field; Jemissa Hess in the indoor mile in 2005 and Sydney Horn in the pole vault in 2021.
Two alumni have competed in the Olympics: Taylor Milne represented Canada in the 1,500-meter in 2008 and Tamas Kovacs represented Hungary in the marathon in 2012.
Other notable alumni include former Tennessee head coach Bill Webb and current ZAP Fitness runners Jesse Cherry and Cole Atkins.
HPU's Vert Stadium is named in honor of Dick Vert, an HPU trustee who was a cross country and middle-distance runner and graduated from HPU in 1960.


Football
High Point University had football from the 1920s until 1950 and was a member of the North State Conference.
HPU played at NC State in the 1930 season opener, which was the first night football game played in the state of North Carolina.
The team played at Albion Millis Stadium, now the site of Vert Stadium.
There is often speculation about High Point restarting a football program but no timeline has been announced.


Men's golf
Men's golf is one of High Point's longest-running sports behind men's basketball.
The team moved up to NCAA Division I in 1999 and had its best Big South Championship finish, third, in 2006.
HPU's highest individual finisher was Ryan Taylor, who placed second in 2007.
The team's most prominent alumnus is Roger Watson, who played for HPU from 1963 to 1966, won national club championships in 1974 and 1975 and has since been inducted to several halls of fame, including the NAIA Hall of Fame and North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame.
High Point named Brady Gregor head coach in 2016, replacing Greg Flesher (2012–16).


Women's golf
High Point University started Women's Golf in 2003–04 and the team achieved its highest Big South Championship finish – second – in 2019.
HPU has had two individual Big South Women's Golf Champions, Ann Marie Dalton in 2008 and Samantha Vodry in 2019.
Vodry also advanced to the NCAA Regionals via at-large bid as the first post-season qualifier in HPU history in 2021.
Alexis Bennett was named Head Coach on July 22, 2016, and has led the team to 4 top-4 conference finishes and 5 tournament titles.


Men's lacrosse

High Point University announced the addition of men's lacrosse as part of the university's $2.1 billion growth plan in September 2010.
HPU's first varsity men's lacrosse season will be 2013.
HPU named Jon Torpey head coach in 2010 and he joined HPU on a full-time basis in June 2011.
Torpey's college teammate at Ohio State, Pat Tracy, as well as former Maryland attacker Michael Phipps joined HPU as assistant coaches in 2011.
High Point brought in 20 players for the 2011–12 season, who redshirted in preparation for the inaugural varsity season.
The 2012–13 roster features 39 players, including three from North Carolina and three from Canada.


Women's lacrosse

High Point University announced the addition of women's lacrosse in 2009 and won the National Lacrosse Conference championship in its first season of 2011.
The Panthers went 15–4 in their inaugural campaign, setting a record for wins by a first-year NCAA Division I program.
The previous record was 13–4 by Navy in 2008.
The team is coached by Lyndsey Boswell, who was named NLC Coach of the Year in 2011.
She had been head coach at St.
Andrews Presbyterian College and was an NCAA Division II All-American while playing at Pfeiffer.
HPU attacker Grace Gaeng transferred from Maryland and was named NLC Player of the Year in 2011.
The team repeated with a 15–4 record in 2012 and won the NLC regular season.
High Point moved to the Big South Conference in 2013 and has won the conference tournament in 2013, 2014, and 2017.
In the 2013 NCAA tournament, they lost 18–7 to Loyola (Maryland) and in 2014 they fell 18–4 to Notre Dame.


Men's soccer

High Point men's soccer began play in 1929.
In their second season in 1930, the Panthers hosted the first-ever intercollegiate soccer game held below the Mason–Dixon line, beating Catawba College 1–0.
The team was dropped in 1942 due to World War II but was then brought back in 1971 and moved to Division I in 1999.
HPU recorded its best overall record and won its first-ever Big South Regular Season Championship in 2010 when the team went 16-4-1 overall and perfect 8-0-0 in the Big South.
The Panthers reached the Big South Championship twice but lost both times, falling to Winthrop in 2006 and Coastal Carolina in 2010.
Karo Okiomah became HPU's first Big South Player of the Year and All-American after scoring 12 goals in 16 games for the Panthers in 2010.
The team achieved national rankings in 2010 and 2012 and is the only HPU team to achieve a Div.
I ranking to date.
Dustin Fonder was named High Point's head coach in 2007 and was named Big South Coach of the Year in 2009 and 2010.


Women's soccer

High Point University began women's soccer in 1992 and won Big South Tournaments in 2003, 2007, 2009 and 2010, advancing to the NCAA Tournament each of those seasons.
The program holds a Big South record with six-straight shutouts in conference tournament games, not allowing a goal in either the 2009 or 2010 tournaments.
HPU tied for its first Big South regular season title in 2010.
In its most recent NCAA Tournament game at Maryland on November 12, 2010, High Point led 1–0 before falling to the Terrapins, 4–1.
The team is coached by former Francis Marion head coach Marty Beall.


Women's volleyball

High Point University began its volleyball program in 1973 and moved up to NCAA Division I in 1999.
The Panthers tied for their first Big South regular season championship in 2008, going 26–7 overall and 13–3 in league play.
Former Dayton and Maryland assistant coach Jason Oliver was named HPU's head coach in 2009 and led the team to its first-ever Big South Tournament title and NCAA appearance in 2010.
Audie Gonzalez was named tournament MVP.
The Panthers played No.
12 Duke, taking a 3–0 loss at Cameron Indoor Stadium in their first NCAA Tournament game on December 3, 2010.
In 2016, Tom Mendoza was named head coach, and in his first year, he led High Point to a 23–10 record and another Big South conference title.
In the NCAA tournament, the Panthers lost to No.
7 North Carolina in three sets.


Men's and women's tennis

High Point University stopped its tennis program in 2008.
Most recently the 2003 Men's team won the Big South Tennis Championship defeating fellow Big South member Winthrop University.
The Panthers, who played in five consecutive NAIA national championship tournaments (1970–75) finished #4 in 1974 NAIA Men's National Championship in Kansas City, Missouri.
Coach Ray Alley was named 1975 NAIA men's Tennis National Coach of the Year.
Peter Ranney was named NAIA Honorable Mention All-American in 1975.
Finland stars from the early 1990s and 2000s included All-Conference, Rolex Champion, and Athletes of the Year players Vesa Kemppainen, Pekka Pohjamo, and Tavvi Surousa.
 High Point star Pekka Pohjamo won the singles and doubles at the 1994 Rolex ITA Collegiate Invitational.
He teamed with American Donald Marriott to take the doubles title.
Donald Marriott who played in the early 1990s also garnered All-Conference, Millis-Scholar Athlete, and All-District awards.
Marriott would also win multiple "City of High Point" tennis championships 96,98,03 and North Carolina State Doubles titles including the 2003 NC State Mixed Doubles Championship.
He is currently the Men's and Women's Head Tennis coach for Lee's McRae College in Banner Elk, North Carolina.


References


External links

Official website

Graham Stuart
Graham Stuart may refer to:

Graham Stuart (politician) (born 1962), British Conservative Party politician
Graham Stuart (footballer) (born 1970), former English footballer


See also
Graham Stewart (born 1975), Scottish broadcaster

Batu Han Yüksel
Batu Han Yüksel (born 4 October 1999), also known as Batuhan Yüksel, is a Turkish weight lifter competing in the 81 kg division.


Personal life
Batu Han Yüksel was born in Ankara, Turkey on 4 October 1999.


Sport career
Yüksel is a member of Pursaklar Belediye Sports Club in Ankara.

He placed eight in the 62 kg division at the 2016 European Youth Weightlifting Championships in Nowy Tomyśl, Poland.
He competed in the Juniors category at the 2019 European Junior & U23 Weightlifting Championships held in Bucharest, Romania, and took the silver medal in the clean & jerk event and the bronze medal in total.
At the 2022 European Weightlifting Championships in Tirana, Albania, he ranked 7th n the 73 kg division.
In 2022, he competed in the 81 kg division at the Islamic Solidarity Games in Konya, Turkey.
He won the silver medal in the 81 kg snatch event, the bronze medal in the clean & jerk and became silver medalist in total at the 2023 European Weightlifting Championships in Yerevan, Armenia.


Achievements


References

Port-en-Bessin-Huppain
Port-en-Bessin-Huppain (French pronunciation: [pɔʁ ɑ̃ bɛsɛ̃ ypɛ̃] ) is a commune in the Calvados department in the Normandy region in northwestern France.
The commune contains the two towns of Port-en-Bessin and Huppain.


Population


History
The name Huppain stems from Norse/Norwegian Oppheim, reflecting the general Viking history of Normandy.
The town was captured by Royal Marines of No.
47 (Royal Marine) Commando in Operation Aubery during the Normandy landings and used as the terminal for PLUTO (Pipe-Lines Under The Ocean).


Media

Port-en-Bessin was used to represent nearby Ouistreham in the 1962 film The Longest Day.


Sister cities
 Saint-Pierre, Saint Pierre and Miquelon (France), since 1976.


See also
Communes of the Calvados department


Gallery


Climate


References

2000 Big 12 Conference football season
The 2000 Big 12 Conference football season represented the 5th season of Big 12 conference football, taking place during the 2000 NCAA Division I-A football season.
The season began with non-conference play on Saturday, August 26, 2000.
Conference play began on Saturday, September 30, 2000.
At the conclusion of the regular season, Kansas State won the North Division championship with a 11–3 (6–2) record.
Oklahoma finished atop the South Division standings, with a perfect regular season 11–0 (8–0).
In the 2000 Big 12 Championship Game, the Oklahoma Sooners, narrowly beat the Kansas State Wildcats by a score of 27–24 in Kansas City, Missouri.
With the win, the Sooners advance to the BCS National Championship Game.
Kansas State was placed in the Cotton Bowl Classic.
A total of 7 Big 12 teams went to bowl games in 2000.
Oklahoma won the BCS National Championship Game at the 2001 Orange Bowl, defeating Florida State, 13–2, in Miami Gardens.


Head coaches


Regular season


Week 1


Week 2


Week 3


Week 4


Week 5


Week 6


Week 7


Week 8


Week 9


Week 10


Week 11


Week 12


Week 13


Week 14


Championship Game


Bowl Games


Bowl games

Rankings are from AP rankings.
 All times Central Time Zone.
 Big 12 teams shown in bold.


References

Gau-Heppenheim
Gau-Heppenheim is an Ortsgemeinde – a municipality belonging to a Verbandsgemeinde, a kind of collective municipality – in the Alzey-Worms district in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.


Geography


Location
The municipality lies in Rhenish Hesse and belongs to the Verbandsgemeinde of Alzey-Land, whose seat is in Alzey.
It has about 550 inhabitants.


History
In 790, Gau-Heppenheim had its first documentary mention as  Hepfanheim when several holdings were granted to Lorsch Abbey.
The former castle complex, mentioned about 1500, was utterly destroyed in 1766 by a lightning strike and the ensuing fire.
Until the late 18th century, the place belonged to the Elector of the Palatinate.
Until that time, the village also called itself Heppenheim im Loch (“Heppenheim in the Hole”).
In 1903, it was given the name Gau-Heppenheim to distinguish it from other places called Heppenheim.


Religion
The Catholic parish in Gau-Heppenheim, St.
Urban, is bound to the branch parish of Framersheim.
The Catholic share of the population is only some 20% of the whole and its members see themselves as living in a kind of diaspora.
Services are not held in the original Gau-Heppenheim parish church, but rather in the “branch” church Sieben Schmerzen Mariens (“Seven Sorrows of Mary”) in Framersheim.
Anton Spiehler was a Catholic priest in Gau-Heppenheim, and later a bishop's secretary, a spiritual adviser and a cathedral capitulary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Speyer, as well as the deputy head of the diocesan seminary and Summus Custos (“Highest Keeper”) of Speyer Cathedral.
He belonged to the so-called Mainz Circle (Mainzer Kreis).


Politics


Municipal council
The council is made up of 12 council members, who were elected by majority vote at the municipal election held on 7 June 2009, and the honorary mayor as chairman.


Mayors
Manfred Becker – FWG (until 2007)
Klaus Krieger – FWG (2007–2014)
Helmut Matthäi (2014–2019)
Peter Moritz (since 2019)


Coat of arms
The municipality's arms might be described thus: Per pale azure a fess between three lozenges argent, and argent a vine leafed of one vert with two bunches of grapes of the first.


Culture and sightseeing


Buildings
The original Romanesque Catholic church, St.
Urban, still has a sacristy from 1505.
On the unsupported ceiling from 1726 are restored paintings.
Only an archway in the sacristy, the north wall and the gabled wall in the west are left of the original Romanesque architecture.
The Evangelical parish church's nave was built in 1726.
Inside is a pulpit from 1730.
The rectory dates from the late 16th century.


Further reading
Scholl, Herrmann:  Chronik von Gau-Heppenheim,  Rheinhessische Druckwerkstätte, 2004, ISBN 978-3-87854-185-1


References


External links
Brief portrait with film about Gau-Heppenheim at SWR Fernsehen Archived 2012-03-20 at the Wayback Machine (in German)

Gnesin
Gnesin, or Gnessin (Russian: Гнесин) is a Jewish Russian surname.
People with this surname include:

Fabian Osipovich Gnesin (1837–1891), an official rabbi of Rostov-on-Don and father of a prominent Jewish Russian family of musicians and philanthropists.
Sisters Gnesin:
Yevgeniya Savina-Gnesina (1870–1940)
Elena Gnesina (1874–1967)
Maria Gnesina (1876–1918)
Yelizaveta Gnesina-Vitáček (1876–1953)
Olga Alexandrova-Gnesina (1881–1963)
Mikhail Gnesin (1883–1957), Jewish Russian composer
Grigory Gnesin (1884–1938), singer and stage actor
Gnesin State Musical College, Moscow
Uri Nissan Gnessin (1879–1913), Jewish Russian writer, a pioneer in modern Hebrew literature
Menahem Gnessin (1882–1951), Jewish Russian stage actor, younger brother of Uri Nissan Gnessin


References

The Oxford Magazine
The Oxford Magazine is a review magazine and newspaper published in Oxford, England.


History
The Oxford Magazine was established in 1883 and published weekly during Oxford University terms.
Contributors included: J.
R.
R.
Tolkien, whose character Tom Bombadil, who later featured in The Lord of the Rings, first appeared in the magazine around 1933.
A joint poem by C.
S.
Lewis and Owen Barfield called "Abecedarium Philosophicum" was published on 30 November 1933.
Dorothy Sayers published two of her poems, Hymn in Contemplation of Sudden Death and Epitaph for a Young Musician, in the magazine.
W.
H.
Auden published his early poem "The Sunken Lane" there while he was an undergraduate at Oxford University.
The magazine has also published the poets H.
W.
Garrod, Olivia McCannon, Jude Cowan Montague, Michael Gessner, Kieron Winn, John Wain, Elizabeth Jennings and others.
It now functions "as a commentator on university affairs", that is, an independent forum where members of Congregation can debate academic policy.
While it is distributed along with the Oxford University Gazette, it sometimes carries articles critical of the University's leadership.
The magazine continues to publish poetry, including the work of Oxford Professor of Poetry Simon Armitage.
As of 2025, the current literary editor is the poet Jane Griffiths, who took up this position after Lucy Newlyn.
Newlyn had been the literary editor of the magazine since 2011.
The previous literary editor of the magazine was the poet Bernard O'Donoghue, who was preceded by the poet David Constantine.
The general editor of the magazine in 2021 was Tim Horder, Emeritus Fellow in Medicine at Jesus College, Oxford.
Latterly issued four times each term, the magazine became online only in December 2020 saving the university £45,000 a year.
In 2022 the university ended all personnel and computer support, leaving the editors unable to continue publication.
Academic staff prepared a motion for debate at Congregation in November 2022 which "instructs" the university council to reverse the decision and to ensure the continued publication of Oxford Magazine under the preexisting arrangements.
Council later stated that the motion was acceptable to it and agreed to "continue the arrangements for the Oxford Magazine which were in place in 2021–22 whilst its longer-term future is debated."
It should not be confused with Oxford Magazine or In Oxford Magazine, both commercial listings/shopping magazines covering the City of Oxford, nor with an earlier periodical also called The Oxford Magazine which was published in London from 1768 to 1776.


See also
Oxford Poetry


References


External links
Website (access restricted to members of the University)

The Automobile Society India
The Automobile Society India (ASI) started in 2011.
ASI began conducting Technician Membership and Senior membership exams through its Institution of Automobile Engineers India.
In 2014, the society established a state private technical university in Arunachal Pradesh, the North East Frontier Technical University.


Membership examination
The Automobile Society conducts Technician Membership Examination and Senior Technician membership Examination twice in a year.


Skill development programmes
Automobile Society India is a training partner of NSDC Star Scheme.
The society already trained more than 4000 students under this scheme.
Now, the society also plans to implement more Skill Development programmes through its Students chapters and University.


Memberships
Life Member – The Engineering Council Of India
Member – Assocham


References

Ghulam Nabi Kashmiri
Ghulam Nabi Kashmiri (2 July 1965 – 7 November 2019) was a Kashmiri Muslim scholar and jurist of the Hanafi school who served as the senior professor of hadith at Darul Uloom Waqf.
He also taught hadith at Jamia Ziya al-Uloom and Jamiat al-Tayyibat in Poonch.
He was among the early graduates of Darul Uloom Waqf and authored books such as Hayat-e-Tayyib, a biography of Muhammad Tayyib Qasmi.


Early life and education
Ghulam Nabi Kashmiri born on 2 July 1965 in Poonch, Jammu and Kashmir.
He received primary education at his native place, and joined Darul Uloom Deoband for higher education.
Subject to administrative disputes at the Deoband seminary, he moved to newly established Darul Uloom Waqf, from where he graduated in the traditional dars-e-nizami in 1983.
He was among its early graduates.
He received an M.A in Arabic language from Aligarh Muslim University and an M.A in Urdu language from Dr.
Bhimrao Ambedkar University.
His teachers included Anzar Shah Kashmiri and Muhammad Salim Qasmi.


Career
Kashmiri was appointed as teacher in Darul Uloom Waqf in 1985.
He remained on this post until 2017 and taught books such as Ibn Majah, Abu Dawud, Sunan Tirmidhi, and several books of jurisprudence.
He moved to Darul Uloom Zakariya where he was appointed senior professor of hadith, however, he came back to Waqf seminary right after a year.
During his last days, he moved to his native place in Poonch and became the senior professor of hadith at Jamia Ziya al-Uloom and Jamiat al-Tayyibat.
He also served briefly at the University of Kashmir as a lecturer.
His students included Faizul Waheed.


Literary works
Ghulam Nabi Kashmiri's books include:

Akhlaqiat ka islami tasawwur
Barah Mahino'n ki barah taqreerein
At Taliqaat ala Tanzeemul ashtat (Guide of Mishkat Shareef)
Tasheel al-Mutanabbi (Guide of Deewan-e-Mutanabbi)
Faizul Imamein (Guide of Jalalein Shareef)
Hayat-e-Tayyib (2 Volume biography of Qari Muhammad Tayyib)
Nawa-i-Qalam
Liberalism aur Islam
Dawat-O-Tableegh ki Ehemiyat


Death and legacy
Kashmiri went to Deoband after teaching the last lesson on Sahih al-Bukhari in Jamia Zia-ul-Uloom Poonch.
He had been suffering from stomach cancer for about 3 years.
He died on 7 November 2019 in Delhi.
After Isha prayer, Kashmiri's funeral prayers were offered in the premises of Molsari in Darul Uloom Deoband.
Muhammad Sufyan Qasmi (rector Darul Uloom Waqf Deoband) led this funeral prayer.
He was buried at Mazar-e-Qasmi.


See also
List of Deobandis


References


Citations


Bibliography


External links

Transition to Colour
Transition to Colour is the third EP by Australian musician Matt Corby.
It was recorded in London released by Communion Music and Universal Music Australia in October 2010.


Critical reception
Beat Magazine said "A hypnotic collection of glimmering indie folk tunes, the EP is a surprisingly mature work from the 19-year-old singer-songwriter...
Pianos trickle and swell throughout the record, strings hum and acoustic guitars pick their way through the songs, with the quiet skitter of drums driving everything forward.
Corby's voice is beautiful, swinging easily from warm, whispering lows to brief, wailing highs." They concluded the review saying "His sound won't appeal to everyone – the soulful folk and lush production values are unselfconscious and devoid of irony, and completely outside of contemporary music trends.
But Corby's EP is brave and confident, and the music is inarguably refined".
Oh No They Didn't said "Despite Transition to Colour being Corby's third EP, it still feels like a 'young' release.
Too often he throws his voice at a song, showcasing his impressive range but adding little to the song's development.
Yet when Corby shows a touch more restraint, such as on single 'Made of Stone', the smoke and red wine soaked 'Kings, Queens, Beggars and Thieves' and folky 'Refuge', the results exhibit a richness that defy his age."


Track listing


References

Safe Speed
Safe Speed was a United Kingdom-based pressure group that campaigned against speed cameras, claiming that it did so on the grounds of road safety.


History
The organisation was started in 2001 by Paul Smith, a former computer electronics engineer, which ran from Smith's home in Scotland.
Following Smith's death in 2007 the campaign was taken over by his partner Claire Armstrong.


Criticism
There have been few formal studies evaluating the claims made by Safe Speed:

George Monbiot has argued that Safe Speed is much more about speed than safety, and is part of a "culture of speed".
The claim that "one third of road deaths are due to speed cameras" was disputed by the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety (PACTS) and by the National Safety Camera Scheme which cite seatbelt and alcohol laws introduced prior to the 1990s, and recent increased road use and mobile phone use as better explanations for the perceived increase in casualties.
Safe Speed's method of extrapolating from two years' data is also disputed.
Which?
magazine reported that the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety (PACTS) and the National Safety Camera Liaison (NSCL) cite three studies which do allow for long-term trends, and which confirm the correlation between speed cameras and accident reduction.
The magazine also reported that the Transport Research Laboratory (TRL) disputes Safe Speed's interpretation of TRL 323.
In particular they state that the study was dependent on subjective judgements of primary cause, and that many of the other primary causes listed also implied excessive speed.
Other TRL studies (e.g.
421 and 511) have examined the relationship between speed and accidents and suggest a strong association.
A study of over 300 roads, encompassing several hundred thousand observations, demonstrated that the higher the average speed of traffic on a given type of road, the more accidents there are.
The study also demonstrated that injury accidents rise as average speed increases (if all else remains constant).


References


Further reading
DfT's "four-year" report.
"The national safety camera programme: Four-year evaluation report" (PDF).
PA Consulting.
2005.
Retrieved 26 February 2006.


External links
Official website

Søren Hermansen
Søren Hermansen (born 7 September 1970) is a Danish professional football coach and former player who played as a forward.
He is manager of the Denmark national under-16 team.


Playing career
During his active career, he started as a youth player for hometown clubs Skovbakken and AGF before helping Aarhus Fremad reach promotion to the Danish Superliga.
In 1998, he signed with Lyngby Boldklub before moving to Mechelen in Belgium.
After three tumultuous seasons there where he was demoted to the reserves and did not receive months worth of pay, he ended his career in Iceland with Þróttur where he played for two years.
He scored 75 goals in all Danish divisions during his tenures for Fremad and Lyngby.


Coaching career
After his active playing career, Hermansen started coaching local Copenhagen-clubs Vanløse and Skovlunde, before becoming a renowned youth manager, having coached Lyngby U17 as well as various national youth teams.


References


External links
Søren Hermansen at DBU

September 1960 lunar eclipse
A total lunar eclipse occurred at the Moon’s descending node of orbit on Monday, September 5, 1960, with an umbral magnitude of 1.4239.
It was a central lunar eclipse, in which part of the Moon passed through the center of the Earth's shadow.
A lunar eclipse occurs when the Moon moves into the Earth's shadow, causing the Moon to be darkened.
A total lunar eclipse occurs when the Moon's near side entirely passes into the Earth's umbral shadow.
Unlike a solar eclipse, which can only be viewed from a relatively small area of the world, a lunar eclipse may be viewed from anywhere on the night side of Earth.
A total lunar eclipse can last up to nearly two hours, while a total solar eclipse lasts only a few minutes at any given place, because the Moon's shadow is smaller.
Occurring about 2.5 days after perigee (on September 2, 1960, at 22:20 UTC), the Moon's apparent diameter was larger.


Visibility
The eclipse was completely visible over eastern Australia, northeast Asia, and northwestern North America, seen rising over western Australia and the eastern half of Asia and setting over North and South America.


Eclipse details
Shown below is a table displaying details about this particular solar eclipse.
It describes various parameters pertaining to this eclipse.


Eclipse season

This eclipse is part of an eclipse season, a period, roughly every six months, when eclipses occur.
Only two (or occasionally three) eclipse seasons occur each year, and each season lasts about 35 days and repeats just short of six months (173 days) later; thus two full eclipse seasons always occur each year.
Either two or three eclipses happen each eclipse season.
In the sequence below, each eclipse is separated by a fortnight.


Related eclipses


Eclipses in 1960
A total lunar eclipse on March 13.
A partial solar eclipse on March 27.
A total lunar eclipse on September 5.
A partial solar eclipse on September 20.


Metonic
Preceded by: Lunar eclipse of November 18, 1956
Followed by: Lunar eclipse of June 25, 1964


Tzolkinex
Preceded by: Lunar eclipse of July 26, 1953
Followed by: Lunar eclipse of October 18, 1967


Half-Saros
Preceded by: Solar eclipse of September 1, 1951
Followed by: Solar eclipse of September 11, 1969


Tritos
Preceded by: Lunar eclipse of October 7, 1949
Followed by: Lunar eclipse of August 6, 1971


Lunar Saros 127
Preceded by: Lunar eclipse of August 26, 1942
Followed by: Lunar eclipse of September 16, 1978


Inex
Preceded by: Lunar eclipse of September 26, 1931
Followed by: Lunar eclipse of August 17, 1989


Triad
Preceded by: Lunar eclipse of November 4, 1873
Followed by: Lunar eclipse of July 7, 2047


Lunar eclipses of 1958–1962
This eclipse is a member of a semester series.
An eclipse in a semester series of lunar eclipses repeats approximately every 177 days and 4 hours (a semester) at alternating nodes of the Moon's orbit.
The lunar eclipses on May 3, 1958 (partial) and October 28, 1958 (penumbral) occur in the previous lunar year eclipse set, and the penumbral lunar eclipse on July 17, 1962 occurs in the next lunar year eclipse set.


Saros 127
This eclipse is a part of Saros series 127, repeating every 18 years, 11 days, and containing 72 events.
The series started with a penumbral lunar eclipse on July 9, 1275.
It contains partial eclipses from November 4, 1473 through May 18, 1780; total eclipses from May 29, 1798 through November 9, 2068; and a second set of partial eclipses from November 20, 2086 through June 17, 2429.
The series ends at member 72 as a penumbral eclipse on September 2, 2555.
The longest duration of totality was produced by member 35 at 101 minutes, 46 seconds on July 23, 1888.
All eclipses in this series occur at the Moon’s descending node of orbit.

Eclipses are tabulated in three columns; every third eclipse in the same column is one exeligmos apart, so they all cast shadows over approximately the same parts of the Earth.



Tritos series
This eclipse is a part of a tritos cycle, repeating at alternating nodes every 135 synodic months (≈ 3986.63 days, or 11 years minus 1 month).
Their appearance and longitude are irregular due to a lack of synchronization with the anomalistic month (period of perigee), but groupings of 3 tritos cycles (≈ 33 years minus 3 months) come close (≈ 434.044 anomalistic months), so eclipses are similar in these groupings.


Inex series
This eclipse is a part of the long period inex cycle, repeating at alternating nodes, every 358 synodic months (≈ 10,571.95 days, or 29 years minus 20 days).
Their appearance and longitude are irregular due to a lack of synchronization with the anomalistic month (period of perigee).
However, groupings of 3 inex cycles (≈ 87 years minus 2 months) comes close (≈ 1,151.02 anomalistic months), so eclipses are similar in these groupings.


Half-Saros cycle
A lunar eclipse will be preceded and followed by solar eclipses by 9 years and 5.5 days (a half saros).
This lunar eclipse is related to two total solar eclipses of Solar Saros 134.


See also
List of lunar eclipses
List of 20th-century lunar eclipses


Notes


External links
1960 Sep 05 chart Eclipse Predictions by Fred Espenak, NASA/GSFC

Princeton Community Television
Princeton Community Television (also known as Princeton TV and TV30) is a Public, educational, and government access (PEG) cable TV channels in Princeton, New Jersey.
The station provides camera equipment, TV studios and training that allow the community to create television shows, films, and other projects.
The station is carried on Comcast channel 30 and Verizon FIOS channel 45 in the Princeton, New Jersey area.
 Princeton Community Television is one of the largest public producers of original content in New Jersey.


History
Princeton Community Television (TV30) is a Public Access cable television station,  The station was created by the Borough and Township of Princeton in 1995, and occupied "two cramped, very small rooms" in The Arts Council building on Witherspoon Street; it moved to larger quarters in the old Valley Road School building in 2003.
In 2013 the station moved from Valley Road, to newly renovated quarters in the former Borough Hall building at 1 Monument Drive.


Shows produced


Back Story with Joan Goldstein
Monthly forum hosted by sociologist and educator Joan Goldstein will explore current issues of the day, both national and local, with guests invited for their expertise or particular viewpoints.
Produced at PCTV.
Mon.
at 7:00 am, Wed.
at 8:30 pm and Sun.
at 5:30 pm.


Medical Tips You Need to Know
Medical Tips You Need to Know went on the air in 2009; program hosts Patricia Raya, RN, C, MBA and Corine Mogenis, Medical Paralegal, discussed  health topics with the goal of helping  people navigate the  healthcare system


Talking Jazz with Eric Mintel
First aired on Feb.
8, 2018, the program features performances by and interviews with jazz musicians, and with other figures on the jazz scene.
Guests have included Ella Ghant, a singer, and pianists Jim Riddle and Steve Rudolph.


Secrets of College Planning
Anthony Uva was an athlete in high school and a NJ state champion at a Group 1 school.
In 2013, Anthony was asked to host a college information talk show called Secrets of College Planning.
There have been more than 200 shows broadcast and he has a social media following of over 1 million.


References

